Continuing north westward from Beck Street (Beck Barn) until Mansfield Road is reached, and close to where it is joined by Great Alfred Street, was Sandy Lane.
Lying as it does on a hill, the land falls gently away from its south boundary-wall to form a verdant valley, separating the sacred area by some half-mile from the 'New London' Colliery opposite.
Leaving the market-place, the stranger will go up Pelham-street, down Carlton-street, and turn to the left, along Broad-street.
Looking north along Stoney Street from the top of Hollowstone (A Nicholson, 2004).
The whole of the river front was pulled down and rebuilt from the west tower to the small staircase next the gatehouse, and a fine hexagonal angle tower built at the northern angle.
Interior of Blyth church, nave, looking east.
The Toronto-Vancouver 'Canadian' at Jasper
East Bridgford church, nave looking west.
The tower in plan is wider from north to south than from east to west.
A high brick wall encloses an ample kitchen garden, or rather kitchen gardens, for this portion of the grounds is divided into parts.
At any rate, the pre-Conquest defence of the town takes a curious turn to the south just here, in order to include this area, showing its importance before the days of Edward the Elder.
One half-acre abutting on Seggficke south; and John Allen's close North; upon Short Butts East; Robert Wayne lyeth West (B).
Of gateways on the east, and on the south at Hollow Stone and Drury Hill, the Records tell us nothing.
The present church, dedicated to St. James, has in recent years been completely decorated and re-pewed; at the same time the organ, a Willis, was moved from the west to the east of the north wall.
Nave, interior, looking west (photo: Harry Gill, 1912).
In addition to his house in St. Mary-le-bow, it is related that west from Gresham College was another fair house where Sir William kept his mayoralty.
There are two or three distinguished tablets on the north wall by Sir George Frampton and Albert Toft.
The west doorways at Plumtree and Mansfield, south doorways at Norwell, Wysall, Harworth, Carburton, south chancel doorway at Edwinstowe, north door (built up), at Attenborough, &c.
Imprs One Dwelling house containing three Bays of Building, one Layth containing two Bays of Building & one Garden with a Yard butting upon ye Church Yard on the West, & on the King's Street on the South, on ye School Orchard on ye East, & Jos: Cotham's Orchard on ye North.
In 1368 Richard Colier, of Nottingham, left by his will all his granges (=barns) lying upon the Spittleland (=hospital land) near St. John's Hospital.
from north to south, surrounded by a wall, now only remaining on the east side.
Although really a wealthy man he became mentally deranged and secluded himself in a miserable apartment in an upper storey in this court.
His tombstone, the oldest monument in the church, is on the east wall in the south aisle.
The Noel Street Preaching Station is under management of this church.
Our county lies in the southern portion of the large plain whose drainage falls into the Humber.
Many fine oaks went to the repair of the palace fortress at Nottingham.
Interior of Blyth church, south aisle, looking east.
From Rempstone it makes its way north through Nottingham, Ollerton, and Blyth to Bawtry, and thence to York.
The western portal at Thurgarton Priory (founded 1140 and rebuilt in the 13th century), is perhaps as fine as anything of the same period in England.
The word moor comes in many limes in this old history-Moor Close, Moor Lane, Moor Watering.
Interior of the Norman nave, looking east, c.
There is in the south eastern wall in Church Street some old walling stone, which was part of the manor house buildings.
In the transept are the words 'Entrance to the Vault,' and on the west wall, a little distance away, is a plain tablet of marble to the famous admiral, surmounted by a coat of arms.
Details connected with this Subsidy Roll the more fully confirm my thorough conviction that Hencrosse row, otherwise Hencrosse, reached on the eastern side from the bottom of Gretsmythgate (or Pelham Street) to what we now call Bottle Lane.
The King's Meadow was, in the olden time, a meadow between the Castle and Wilford parish.
The Storth Meadow (Storth-great) lies near Torkard Hill, and is now covered with allotment gardens.
Glebe: Belchford near Horncastle
The Wesleyan Mission Hall in King's Meadow Road is just outside the Wilford boundary.
Interior of Blyth church from the south aisle, looking north-east.
This London property was of fabulous value and included Portland-place, Cavendish-square, Wimpole-street, Harley-street, Wigmore-street, and other houses in the neighbourhood.
Further along Lower Parliament Street we come to Broad Street, running parallel with George Street, after passing the Methodist New Connexion Church.
The direct connection with Retford is by Great Northern.
On the western side the coal measures of what is called the Derbyshire Coalfield come near to the surface, and advance to a little west of the railway to Mansfield On the north, about Bobbers Mill, the Magnesian Limestone, which has run from Yorkshire, comes to a sudden termination.
Three minor gaps leading from Lincolnshire and the south occur at Lincoln, Ancaster, and Grantham.
Station, Netherfield, Great Northern; or by road, two miles from Nottingham.
It has a flooring of Minton's encaustic tiles, from the centre of which springs a crystal fountain, set in a marble basin.
The monks at Newstead would teach a few of the youth of neighbouring parishes in the western cloister up to the time of the dissolution of the Priory.
As each compartment of the vaulting is narrower from north to south than from east to west, owing to the inclusion of six bays within a square, the enclosing arches on this line are acutely pointed.
The Wilford Meadow was the land west of what we call Wilford Boad, now the Colliery district, and south of 'The King's Meadow.
Over the eastern window on the exterior are shields bearing the arms of Babington, Ferrers, Stanhope and others.
Henry Dawson, the famous landscape painter, was born in Hull 1811, and came to Nottingham very early in life; he died near London 1878.
Some enterprising parsons used their Church Towers for this purpose, and nest holes are built in the tower walls at Upton, near Southwell.
The altar stood against the east wall in the northern part of the transept.
The Strelley and Bilborough parish-boundary passes through gardens in the immediate vicinity.
Another road, Till Bridge Lane, branched off from the Ermine Street just north of Lincoln, crossed the Trent at Littleborough by a pavement which still exists, and pursued a north-westerly course to Bawtry.
To the Priory Henry gave land in Hucknall, Bestwood, New-stead, Papplewick town, church, and water-mill.
The next hill, which is in Ruddington parish, is on the Ordnance charts called 'Mickleborough hill.
The right of road by Quarry Banks was tried before Baron Pollock (Spring Assizes), and the road by the Hutt Entrance to Newstead.
Upper end of the same range, again looking south.
Continuing the line of the west front from its southern angle is the west front of the mansion adapted from the monastic buildings.
On the outside north wall, immediately at the back of the tomb, is inscribed :-
on Bosworth Field, near Leicester, and seven brothers bore arms at Edge Hill.
Next > Interior of Blyth church, south aisle, looking east.
Wright Wilson Street-next to Shell Cottage.
Ground: The Sutton-in-Ashfield Cricket Club ground in Hardwick Lane.
Left to right: Ruth Hide, Sara Gadzik and Boris Stefanov outside St John of Beverley Church, Scarrington.
North of the Priory was a small meadow called Little Pond Yards, and beyond it another, termed Prior's Well Meadow; the road adjoining is also still called Prior-well-way, because it led to a fine spring of water, gushing into a trough on its western side, from a source in a field formerly called Wellhouse Yards, which spring is now diverted.
A storm water culvert runs from St. Ann's Well Road under Manvers Street and Trent Lane, and empties itself into the Trent.
at Oswestry in Wales.
A trace of this can be seen on the south wall, towards its eastern end.
The east end of the nave was built up with a brick wall, and the interior was fitted with close pews.
and this connection with Lincoln explains how the young brothers, Darrel, had opportunity of knowing the young Denman co-heiresses of West Retford, in days when county families did not go up to London for the season, but to their county towns.
owning farms at Mattersey Hill and Mattersey Thorpe, near Retford.
Sara Gardzik, Boby Stefanov and Andrew Clark (left to right) outside St Augustine Church, Flintham on a gorgeous day in September during the Ride and Stride 2009.
In olden days this courtyard was closed on its south face by a high palisade overlooking the Marsh precipice and commanding a magnificent view over three counties, which view must have been a very poor compensation for the miserable prisoners.
Michael), tower; Sutton-on- Trent, north aisle, chancel, and chapel; Clifton, tower; West Bridgeford, tower; West Retford, spire; Wilford, chancel
On the West wall, opposite the brass to the Rev.
The demolition of the slums of the Marsh area, and the planning of a new residential estate by the Corporation, led to the closing of Long Stairs of which only the iron-fenced upper entrance on Malin Hill now remains.
Proceeding down the narrow steep passage called Drury Hill, into Sussex-street, and the Broad and Narrow-marshes, strangers will immediately observe, that Nottingham, like all other large towns, has its upper and lower strata.
The ancient Tithe Barn, now a dwelling house, still exists in Pond Yard near the church.
The City Asylum was opened in 1880, and has an area of 125 acres, including the land on the west side of Wells Road up to 'The Coppice.
The proposed City Development Plan envisages two new bridges over the Trent with large new housing estates covering what is left of the landscape beyond the river and scaling Wilford Hill from all sides.
On the western side, from Parliament Street to 'Forest Side,' there were (except as just mentioned) no houses, but the land was divided into fourteen fields of grass, which were fenced with hedges next the lane.
Sir Francis Wortley died in 1665 and left his estate with 'my manors of Ordsall, Babworth and Tylne' to his daughter, Anne.
of the great stone gatehouse there was possibly only a timber tower, approached by a wooden bridge across the ditch from near the town bridge-head.
George Staunton Brough, A.M., Rector of this Parish, and of Wollaton in this County.
Boarding School, Arnold, near Nottingham.
The London and North Western Station is in Station Street, a thoroughfare running alongside the Midland Station.
There is a fine alabaster tomb in the North Transept to Archbishop Sandys of York.
Nearly 300 railway trains- passenger, mineral, and goods-run through the parish daily.
The exterior of St Mary's looking west.
F. J. Adams, M.A., Vicar; came from S. Thomas' Church, Derby, to Sutton.
County Football Club, established 1862, has its leasehold ground near the south-western end of Meadow lane.
A wood, 10 acres in extent, occupied the land north-west of Shortwood Farm buildings.
The houses in Saxon times would cluster about the church, and some would stand in a line parallel with the Pasture dyke, extending from the West-end, by the Cross, to the 'City.
On the eastern line, Count Street and Carter Gate-parallel with Sneinton Street and Water Lane.
Situation of Nottingham-Railway Routes-Midland, Great Central, Great Northern, London and Northwestern Railway Stations-Approaches to Nottingham by Road-From the South-From the North-From theNorth-West and West-From the South-West- From the East.
Anne's Well Road,' to the town-woods and wastes and Mapperley Hills, leading towards Lambley, Woodborough, and Calverton.
Move East
There is a long chancel, without a chancel arch, the walls being in a line with the nave arcades.
J. Butterwick states that this rector used to ride through from Wells to Kirkby and back on an old cob.
Buildings erected include Extension to Bracebridge Asylum, near Lincoln, Schools, Libraries, Cinemas, Clubs, Banks, Churches, Factories, Warehouses, Shops, Offices and large Housing Schemes.
There are the farmhouses and buildings, stackyards and orchards, cottages with honeysuckle and garden, the land divided by hedges into fields, in which a park-like grass abounds, and studded with trees-oak.
Arnold lay well to the east and away from the coalfield that was being opened up during this period.
This place was anciently known as Streton, being a village on the Roman road to the north, and in later days as Sturton-in-the-Clay.
History of Ordsall parish Information on Ordsall and Ordsall parish church, inlcuding extracts from parish records.
The third, in the north-east, follows down the Trent from North Clifton to West Stockwith.
Richard Wright enclosed the highway in Broadgate.
The one to the right-Upper Talbot-street-leads to Victoria Hall, formerly a skating rink, but now used for circus and other purposes; the Marble Rink; Turkish Baths; the handsome lace-dressing rooms of Mr. W. Lambert, J.P., with tower, clock, and hells; and St. Matthew's Church; whilst that to the left-east- leads to the magnificent and recently-erected municipal buildings, the new GUILD HALL, with two facades, in Burton and South Sherwood-streets.
But it is worthy of remark that we have a few feet of herring-bone work in this church, at the west end of the south aisle, in the arcade wall close to the tower.
A broken range of hills commences in the eastern suburbs of Nottingham, and sweeps northwards along the central axis of the county, ending abruptly at Gringley-on-the-Hill.
No traces of the college are left, except the fish-ponds on the south side of the church, and the dovecote, unless this as some suggest, is later work, in which material from the old buildings was used.
in England and Wales.
Rumwood or Roumwood area of the forest was presumably near to Worksop Priory, as timber in the Gatehouse oak ceiling was taken from there.
The base of the church-yard-cross still stands near the south porch of the church.
Tradition says, that the armour now hung in the north-east corner of this south aisle in Shelford Church, belonged to the young soldier, and was brought hither from the field of battle.
This public building is situated in Forest Street, in close proximity to the Midland Railway Town Station.
The carriage road to Clumber lies direct through the town, up Sparken Hill, along the Ollerton Road.
Between each of the windows in the south aisle inside the church is a plain bracket.
At one time this tomb was enclosed within iron railings; the iron wall-bracket which still remains near the east end of the wall-tomb was a support for the funeral armour and trappings.
Move South
Arnold lay well to the east and away from the coalfield that was being opened up during this period.
The one to the right-Upper Talbot-street-leads to Victoria Hall, formerly a skating rink, but now used for circus and other purposes; the Marble Rink; Turkish Baths; the handsome lace-dressing rooms of Mr. W. Lambert, J.P., with tower, clock, and hells; and St. Matthew's Church; whilst that to the left-east- leads to the magnificent and recently-erected municipal buildings, the new GUILD HALL, with two facades, in Burton and South Sherwood-streets.
The ground storey of this building is divided by two cross walls into three oblong spaces, each with a plain vault.
The north western part of Millstone Lane, reaching to Beck Barn, now Beck Street, has for many years been designated Cross Street.
On weddenesday September] the sixt a tempestuous winde from the north west blew down the middle pinnacle on the south side of this steeple, without other harme dooinge, thanks bee to god.
The County-hall stands higher up the street , on the same side, near St. Mary's church.
The whole parish was said to contain by estimation 2001 acres, namely: ARABLE 811 acres; MEADOW 1090 acres; WOODLAND 100 acres.
Caves in Rock Cemetery, Nottingham Caves in Rock Cemetery, Nottingham
The chancel, the axis of which inclines to the south, opens to the nave by a plain 14th century arch of two chamfered orders, resting on older piers of the 12th century Norman work with bold and effective triple-grouped shafts, the easternmost forming a respond imbedded in the chancel wall.
Possibly this was identical with the ' Boler Cross ' figuring on Sanderson's county-map of 1861, in the neighbourhood of the Halam and Edingley parish boundary line.
Abbey Church, Lenton Arnold Church Assembly Rooms Attenborough, Ireton's House Baptists' Graveyard and Vason's Tomb Barracks, Nottingham Beauvale Abbey Black's Head, Broad Marsh Bonington's Birthplace Booth's Tombstone Bramcote Manor Broadway, Norman Arches Broxtowe Hall Bulwell Old Grammar School Bunny Burton's Almshouses Calverton Church Stockingers' Cottages Carrington Market Place Castle Castle Gateway Castle Rock Houses Castle Road Castle Road, The Hollows Castle Road, Jessamine Cottages Cave Chambers, Bridlesmith Gate Caves, Ropewalk Church Cemetery Caves Clifton Church Clifton, The Dovecote Clifton Grove Collins' (Lawrence) House Colwick Church Colwick Hall Crossland Place Drury Hill Edwalton Church Flawford Churchyard and Figures Flying Horse Hotel Gedling Church Greasley Castle Guide House, Redhill Hemlock Stone Hermitage Rock Holes Holme Pierrepont Church Holy Trinity Church Font (Lenton) Horne's Castle Inn House of Commons Window Howe's (Lord) House, Castle-gate Hucknall Church Hutchinson's (Lady) House Ireton's House, Attenborough Jessamine Cottages, Castle Road Jews' Graveyard Johnson's Mill Forest Road Lambley Church Lenton Church Font (Holy Trinity) Lenton Priory, Abbey Church Lenton Priory Remains Linby Castle Mill Linby Cross London Road, Canal Bridge Long Stairs Mortimer's Hole Murder Stone, Mansfield Road Nag'sTRUNC
The capitals are plainly molded and bridging the north aisle at its east end is an arch supported by a corbel on the east column.
it released to Rufford its common rights it had in Kirton Park by reason of the prior's parsonage at Tuxford.
The only ornament in it, is the east window, containing the figures of Faith and Hope, copied from a portion of the west window in New College Chapel, Oxford, the designs being by Sir Joshua Reynolds.
Within a stone's throw was the humble parsonage, with its garden stretching to the churchyard wall.
The Tramways running south from Market Street divide the Market Place into two unequal portions, one an oblong square wherein the principal Market is held, and the other a triangle known locally as the 'Pot Market.
View of castle excavations, looking north-east.
The grounds outside the house, if they are not extensive, are picturesque and pleasing, and the fatal frosts of the past few winters, destructive as they have been, have left some noble trees on the estate.
View of castle excavations, looking south-west.
Blake Hall' is the singular name given to a field adjoining the Bulwell boundary, near the Farleys.
A change has come o'er all the town; The Cotton-works in ruins fit and, And Unwin's-hall is coming down.
time this work has been in preparation, one whose friendly suggestions were always welcome, has departed to his rest.
A curiosity may be seen in Mr. Simons' garden, where he has trained young oaks to form an arch over a garden path, and circles entwined, and to form one tree above the arch.
Kighill and Ravenshead woods lie right and left of the main road from Nottingham to Mansfield just before it is joined by the road from Papplewick.
A little further on may be seen (on the right hand, looking down Sycamore-road), some of the garden allotments, by which Nottingham is famous; and further on is a Water-pumping Station.
Apparently the Rectory then had six acres of arable land, and about ten acres of meadow.
The ground south of the priory slopes to the stream, affording good drainage and plenty of sun, while to the north and east the rising ground of Sherwood forest shelters it from wind.
Hell-hole Wood, near Watnall boundary, was often called Eel-hole Wood.
cominge of XXiiii acres of meadow, lying in a meadow belonging to the castle of Nottingham called the king's meadow.
The Treasures in the Stately Homes of Nottinghamshire-List of Country Seats - Ecclesiastical Buildings- Southwell Minster- Its Chapter-House-Newark Parish Church-The Church at Blyth-Worksop Priory Church-Parochial Churches
By the sides of the road about that farm there are growing fine thorn trees or bushes every twenty or thirty yards apart.
Second place was awarded to Julie Holmes from St Mary's Church, Edwinstowe, and third place was awarded to Caroline Briggs of St Peter's Church, Stokeham.
Previous to that time however, the Methodists were not devoid of a place of worship; this building was in Meeting House Lane (a narrow street branching from Carrhill gate,) and to which it imparted its name.
A narrow spire, lighted by small lights, near the top, springs from the parapet, having its base much lower than the walls of the tower.
The soil on the extreme west is on limestone, in the centre on sand, and in the east on clay.
The JEWS' SYNAGOGUE is in Chaucer Street, to the right of St. Andrew's.
Three old watercolours of the Thames and St. Paul's Cathedral from near Fife House, the Wash Bridge at Osberton, and a waterfall and river.
Moorlands and Ryecroft House now stand here).
This latter way, climbing the somewhat lower cliff at Drury Hill, became the great highway and the industrial line of the medieval town.
The deep hard coal is about 170 yards below the top hard; the deep soft is from 20 to 25 yards lower, and the black shale some 300 to 350 yards from the top hard.
Lord Delamere was quartered at the Feathers; the Duke of Devonshire, Earl of Stamford, Lord Howe and many other nobles came to meet with him.
The north-west doorway in the tower is a small replica of the same design.
A Grand (Sherwood) Forest Court was held at Mansfield before William, Marquis of Newcastle.
In Beck-lane, which is just behind, stands the noble mansion of Charles Lomas Morley, Esq.
It can still be seen at Laxton, where the rotation of Winter Corn, Spring Crop, and Fallow takes place in three very large fields.
The Alabaster Table-Tomb under Canopy.
Ordsall is a long, straggling village, which includes several good houses; it is well worth a visit, if only for the sake of Ordsall Parish Church.
There are three monumental effigies of some interest; one, within an Early English canopy, of a lady, probably a member of the Leake family, which lies in the north transept under an archway in the north wall; a second under a recess in the north wall of the chancel, and of Early English character and date; a third in a recess in the south wall of the south aisle, also of considerable antiquity.
Three other houses on the same model were built about the same time:- Mereworth Castle (which belongs to Lord Falmouth), Footscray Place (both in Kent), and Chiswick House, on the Thames.
The other tomb is near the north door, and bears a single-letter inscription in Lombardic capitals and the old French tongue-
Colwick Hill has its western part in the parish, and it is a fine relic of resistance to mighty floods of vast ages ago.
My friend Miss Coate left Windsor-place a few weeks after my return to London.
The Great Market Place, the largest open Market in the Kingdom (4 acres 26 poles), containing movable stalls, where retail sales of fruit, vegetables, fish, game, and poultry, take place daily.
At right angles to the Fosse road an ancient street runs down to the Trent, starting from this camp and going down a very steep cutting to the Trent side.
At this point a road went across to the right; just below the present Hall gardens along this road were two houses, occupied by Robert Hoe and Thomas Litherland.
Another fine example is over the north porch at Southwell, but Southwell being a collegiate church, is scarcely included in the scope of this paper.
Billon; above a clay layer at 1 foot (A 169) near south rampart in east field.
George Gordon Noel Byron, Lord Byron, of Rochdale, Born in London, Jan.
In 1894 the School Board purchased 1787 square yards of land from Mr, F. J. Oscroft for the purpose of building an infants' school.
Herbert's school in Waverley Street.
This islet was removed to make the colliery bank.
The adjacent room with its fireplace may have been the priest's chamber, access to his necessary garderobe accommodation being by a very small timber balcony joining the two doors in the angle between gatehouse and curtain, and thus providing access to the upper garderobe in the adjoining curtain-wall.
Facing the end of this thoroughfare-Park-street-is the time-worn gateway of Nottingham Castle.
In memory of Francis Staunton, M.A., of Staunton Hall, Lord of this Manor, Rector of Staunton-cum-Flawborough.
The brick dovecot, long stable-barn, and iron gate by Huntingdon Shaw, were erected by the Howes, who dismantled the place.
It was the first time a horse was conveyed in a van from his training-stable to a racecourse.
Turning sharply to the left from the main road at the entrance of the village of Watnall, the road was taken for Bulwell Wood Hall, a former home of the Byron family.
Private Carriage Road, 20 feet wide, beginning near Clay Pit Pool over Ordsall Common Westwards.
The hall known as the Brick Hall derives its name from the fact that a brick floor covered most of it; this hall was 59 feet by 30 feet 6 inches.
The Parish Boundary passed through the middle of Babworth Lake, and two acres of it are still in Ordsall Parish.
The Duke of Rutland's Castle Farm Estate passed to the Grammers and Earl Cowper, the Barbers and Rollestons became chief local owners.
The Low Level Pumping Station is in Trent Lane.
This Edward's tomb is in Blyth church.
A substantial structure of wood, asbestos lined, it is placed upon a brick foundation, and seats about 200 people.
From time immemorial the parish was in possession of a freehold estate in High Street, consisting of a house and schoolroom, with a small court in front and garden behind.
A small fragment of oak tracery from the rood-screen-a relic of by-gone days-is displayed near the south respond of the chancel arch.
The Main Line from the South, after passing Leicester and Loughborough, approaches the neighbourhood of Nottingham at East Leake and Ruddington, both of which are becoming holiday resorts for the townsfolk.
Cuckney Photographs, extracts from parish records for Cuckney village near Worksop * Eakring.org Website for the village and parish of Eakring: includes short history of the village and St Andrew's parish church.
Selston, Teversal, and in the north aisle at Hucknall.
The firm has branches operating at 65 Henry Road, West Bridgford, Main Street Bulwell, Stockwell Gate, Mansfield and Market Place, Shirebrook.
The King had five Manors in the County, Dunham, Mansfield, Bothamsall, Arnold and Orston.
messuage, 1 toft, 1 garden, 1 orchard, 27 acres of land, 5 acres meadow, 10 acres pasture, 2 acres moor, and common of pasture in Colston Bassett held of the Crown in chief.
On the left-hand, approached by steps, are tastefully laid-out grounds, and a river-wall promenade.
The Normans agreed to occupy the western side of this wall, and the Saxons and the Danes the eastern.
Hence such plants as wood anemone, giant bell-flower, herb paris (Paris quadrafolia), and autumnal gentian (Gentiana amarella), are widely diffused through the county.
Only one bell was put in the new tower, but four bells were noted in the tower in Edward the Sixth's time.
Robert Gregory, Dean of St. Paul's who was born at a house in Canal Street.
Smith's Wong (wong-a field) lies near the Common Gardens.
He planned on almost collegiate scale, grouping round a central lawn the church, the vicarage, large parish halls, and verger's house.
The house has a south aspect that takes in a garden and a grass field, the dividing line being an ancient brick-wall through which is a wrought stone entrance gateway of considerable architectural pretensions, but now in a state of decay.
When the first train on this new service ran into Midland Station, Nottingham, it was drawn by a Great Northern engine.
Peter's Church is close to this public building and to tile tram terminus.
The neighbouring county of Lincoln still contains many remnants of pre-Conquest work, chiefly in church towers.
Arthur Brook went to Holbeach in 1866, the Rev.
In the spring of that year Wolsey started on a journey to the North, passing through Peterborough, Stamford, Grantham (where he was entertained by Francis Hall, member for the borough), and Newark to Southwell-the favourite abode of his happier days.
Interior of St. Nicholas' Church, Nottingham, showing the graceful chancel-arch and the roof over the nave set up in 1848.
Southwell Cathedral from south-east.
The Archbishop and Prior met at a stone cross near the Hutt, and travelled down the slope to the Abbey, followed by their trains, the big Abbey bells ringing out a welcome.
Southwell Cathedral from North-West.
The same excavation, looking south.
The present vicarage of Selston still stands on the land appropriated to the vicar's house in these early times.
A tall brick chimney, mellowed from its first rawness by age, and a grove of well-grown trees marked the old pumping station.
Robert Nevill, Parson there having in Mansion, glebe lands, and a close,
Grey Lias limestone was used on the inside and red sandstone on the outside.
As it was situated upon a promontory or mound it was referred to occasionally as 'Mont Hall,' and as a matter of fact Fletcher Gate was at one time called 'Mont Hall Gate.
This Monument is Erected to the Memory of JOHN SHAW and RICHARD WAPLINGTON, Of the Life Guards, and THOMAS WHEATLEY, Of the Light Dragoon Guards, Who left this their native home in defence of their country.
Derry Mount spring was enclosed.
In the chancel north wall at Linby is a memorial tablet in Latin, of which the following free translation has been kindly given by the Vicar of Blidworth:-'Hard by this wall lies the body of William Sed-don, for many years minister of this church, who at the sight of the Anglican Church gasping for life, himself became breathless, and rendered up his life to God through Christ, on the 28th day of February, 1684, aged 50.
From the time that the stage coaches crossed each other's courses as they bounded along the broad road from Lincoln to Nottingham, or swept along the grand highway, called the Great North Road, running from London to York, to these days of steam and electricity when the smoking expresses of the Great Northern rush from the Metropolis on their direct journey to the northernly points in Caledonia, Newark has always been familiar to the traveller: long may the good old town continue to show its hospitality to strangers, reminding them by its ancient buildings of the history of the past, and by its elegant modern structures of the prosperity and munificence of the nineteenth century!
The door in the inner archway of the Norman porch (rebuilt) is similar to the west door at the neighbouring church of Hawton, with its unusual interlacing tracery pattern, and transom with 'Jesu mercy lady help,' in raised lettering.
A few yards further, across Canal-street, through Trent-street, and a foot-bridge leads to Station-street, in which are the Midland and Great Northern Stations.
The Forest Foot was of eighteen inches and was employed in measuring forest land, but the stone at Edwinstowe is only about fourteen inches long.
This fine chancel contains both Decorated and Perpendicular work.
The ordinary burial-place was in the paddock, now used as an orchard.
OLD SHEEP LANE, NOTTINGHAM, looking towards the Market Place OLD SHEEP LANE, NOTTINGHAM, looking towards the Market Place
Prior to the purchase of the Hall in 1883, the Sunday School was held in the chancel of the church.
Basford house, the comfortable, square, brick-built house near the church, which still wears a distinguished look, is the Georgian successor of Bassa's manor-house.
It is in the parish of Blyth (4) at which place a Benedictine Priory stood, with its twin monastic and parish church and monuments of great interest; its charming park and village greens, with flower-adorned cottages.
Joseph Scott to Ordsall Rectory in 1774.
Towards the close of the 14th century, the church was replaced by a new and doubtless larger one, of which the embattled tower, the arcade, the head of a two-light window in the north wall at the western end, and the font survive.
The Norman door and Chancel Arch and Font can still be seen at Laneham, and Saxon herring-bone work in the walls.
Doorway in east wall of west cloister range, Welbeck Abbey.
He also built the George III monument near the Waterworks by Papplewick Forest Farm.
The first organ which this church possessed came from the Theatre, at Newark, and was presented by Robert Sutton, Esq.
Newark grain and malt and flour were exported by boat to Nottingham, Leicester, Derby, Manchester, and Hull, the boats returning with coal, salt, timber, and other goods.
Village lies to north and east; main road parallel with south wall.
The small doorway in the tower and the restored buttresses in the north wall will date back to 1250.
The archer's tomb bears the emblems of bow, arrow, baldric, and hunting horn.
Her lover was Mr. John Evelyn Denison of Ossington Hall, about twenty miles from Welbeck in the same county of Nottingham.
It consists of a lofty pinnacled tower containing six bells, north and south aisles, and chancel.
Norman arcade in Blyth church.
This, one of the largest halls in the City, contains in addition to a large hall used for concerts, public meetings, etc., excellent lending and reference libraries.
Everingham tombs in LAxton church.
The boxes vary in size, some being eight inches square and twelve inches deep: while the others are seven inches high, six inches wide, and eighteen inches deep.
Rancliffe Wood, now only small trees, is on a hill.
Near its eastern margin and between Laxton and Askham this clay contains layers of gypsum.
It has a square basin and pointed arch, and under the basin is carved a head to act as a corbel.
high; height from floor to glass line 3ft.
Clear glass quarries in the central light of south window of chancel.
Dividing the chapel from the chancel, and beneath an arch, is the stone tomb of Sir Henry Willoughby.
At the extreme north of the county the boundary takes an eccentric course, for in a curious little tongue of land, projecting into the county of Yorkshire, is situated the parish of Finningley.
Church Gate the tiny street leading out of the north side of Low Pavement is really of remarkable historical interest, for in conjunction with St. Peter's Church Side it was the only exit from the south side of this part of the town until the formation of Albert Street in the middle of the 19th century.
The acreage of public parks, open spaces and recreation grounds available for the people of Nottingham is not far short of two square miles-nearly an eighth of the City's area-including the vast expanse of Wollaton Park.
In many old towns-London, Bath, York, Edinboro', &c.
Probably this timber construction was thinner than the stone walls below, and had a set-off outside, covered with lead to keep the rain out of the tops of the walls.
Albert Road was made as far as Thrumpton Lane.
The land allotted to Hucknall men by the Montagu Trustees and Linby Colliery Co. are in Linby parish, and adjoin the Hucknall boundary.
The windows overlook a square of cheerful gardens enclosed by a low and open wall.
A good oak screen divides nave from the chancel.
Under the eastern arch leading into the church lies Sir Richard Willoughby, son of the judge.
There were other church lands in the parish, besides the rectory and vicarage.
This formed the canons' upper entrance to their own church; and a stout oaken door opposite to the external one could be opened for their admission into the presbytery of the parochial church when required.
Stavely (the Town Surveyor) and Wood, shows that Beck Street was then entitled Beck Barn, and I am fully aware that its name was changed in my time to Beck Street, also that Beck Lane, and Beck Street, or older names were always unconnected, and necessarily so, for Beck Lane was within the town walls, and Beck Barn or Lamleygate without.
The eastern precinct wall runs northwards from the end of the gate-house range for nearly 400ft.
Gilbert Millington had an estate at Brinsley and Felley, and Greasley Church contains a monument to his memory.
The British School in Newdigate Lane.
There is also the 'Lover's Walk,' a narrow path leading down into the wood, with hills rising on each side of this walk.
A plain, flat stone slab marks the spot where his body was laid to rest in S. Stephen's churchyard.
From the Market-place we pass along Grove Street (formerly Newgate).
In the chancel of Laneham Church a fine monument exists to Ellis and Gervase Markham, who once held estates at Laneham and Dunham.
The Trent Bridge *Bridge Street, 1800-1850 London Road Burton Hole, 1772 In the Clayfield *Butcher Street, 1800 (was formed through Butchers' Close) Poplar Street, 1905 * Burton Leys, 1772 Site of Mechanics' Hall, &c.
Before the restoration of Sibthorpe Church, some fifty years ago, this Burnell monument blocked up the western portion of the founder's tomb, and Throsby speaks of the tomb as being in that position in his time.
We have, however, Goldsmith Street and Waverley Street, Dryden Street and Addison Street, Burton Street and Talbot Street, Friar Lane and Park Street, Milton Street and Mansfield Road, Union Road, St. Ann's Well Road, and The Wells Road (3), yet probably the worst case in Nottingham is that of old Sandy Lane, which, commencing from what is denominated Beck Street, is now divided into four parts, namely, Millstone Lane, St. Michael Street, Windsor Street, and Huntingdon Street, which is absurd; Alfred Street North and South being much longer.
A Mr. Hopkinson, had his house-boat towed up the river to Holme Lock, behind the tug-boat, Little John, arriving on the Saturday night before the fishing season opened.
Apart from removing the roof timbers and some of the floor, this was the last time that the Parish had cause to enter the ruins.
Worksop Manor, Kelham Hall, Thoresby Hall, and, lastly, Clumber, in this county, have all been destroyed by fire at different times.
COMING home from Southwell to Newark in 1743, I saw part of the Roman road from Newark to Stamford going off on the right hand a little on this side of Balderton turnpike, where it mounts high grounds, being cornfields.
A lithographic view of Nottingham was taken by Henry Burn in 1845, apparently from the northern boundary dyke of Wilford parish, at the junction of King's Meadow and Wilford Roads.
An earlier document (1617) quoted by Godfrey,^4 makes it clear that Church Field, Moore (or More) Field and Red Field, were the fields of Radford.
The routes from the North-West and West meet at Derby, whence a good road runs into Nottingham by way of Draycott and Risley.
Compared with Northamptonshire or even with its neighbour Lincolnshire this county is not rich in parish church architecture.
ARNOLD is a large village and parish, which may be described as 4 miles north of Nottingham, 10 miles south of Mansfield, and 128 miles from London.
The River-Systems of Nottinghamshire (showing every tributary-stream and dyke, and the marked contrast between the Sandstone country on the west and the Clay country on the east).
Beauvale is in the parish of Greasley, and there is now hanging in the fine tower of Greasley Church a bell which, tradition says, came from Beauvale at the Dissolution.
The Nottingham Amateur Cricket Club has grounds adjoining to the Y.M.C.A.
Much of the old rustic spirit still pervades this favoured village with its church, hall, and schools clustering together in its centre.
Luckily, and about twenty-five years since, the row of shops and houses, once in the middle of Lower Parliament Street, and the western end of which was in a line with the eastern side of Clumber Street, was, to the great convenience of the town, cleared away.
Delany, writing in 1756, says, 'Papplewick is much improved since I saw it, but they have no garden, only a fine field (which was divided into ten); they have taken away the hedges and only left the best of the trees here and there which did not too much intercept their view, which is a fine one ....
This was in or part of the town wall, which ran down Backside, now Parliament Street, and was opposite the upper end of Cow Lane (Clumber Street).
Having mentioned the North Road in another place, it will here be necessary only to notice, that previous to the Act of Parliament being obtained, this road was equally bad with the rest: that part towards the White Houses, (southward) called 'Farmers' Lane,' was narrow and dirty, and the causeways here and there were studded with large stones for the accommodation of foot passengers; whilst towards the north, after passing West Retford field, the traveller was frequently in danger of being immersed in the bogs and quagmires, with which Barnby Common almost every where abounded.
A couple of miles from Southwell, on the summit of a hill which commands a fine view of the Trent, Valley, is the little village of Upton.
wall seven miles in length is Wollaton Park, with its magnificent Elizabethan Hall, its noble trees, its lovely lake, its sylvan charms, its bracken and its deer.
King John's traditional hunting lodge at Haywood Oaks was in the adjoining parish of Blidworth.
In Rampton, before the Conquest, there were seven manors or separate properties.
Looking down Parliament-street-to the east-and on the right-hand side, are The Nottingham Express offices, in a domestic style of architecture.
Sad is the nighness of the local colliery, which it was left to the last generation to plant in the pretty village itself; and whose smouldering pit-bank generates sulphur fumes which will surely in time do to death the noblest trees.
This ancient tree is passed on our left, taking the other road from Mansfield to Edwinstowe, which leaves the Worksop high road near Mansfield Woodhouse.
Holly Mount and St. Alban's Church now stand in this field).
To the left is the mansion, skirted by the gloomy cedars, and beyond, the lake expanding into a noble sheet of water is embosomed in magnificent woods, extending far as the eye can reach.
We have now in view, on each side of the road, a large track of low meadow land, which is subject to floods, whenever the Trent overflows its banks.
In addition to the works already described, the domestic buildings erected by Baron Cromwell include the hunting lodge, or 'Tower-le-Moor,' about four miles from Tattershall, and Colyweston manor-house in Northants.
Chapels in Mansfield Road, Tennyson Street and Arkwright Street, date from the Seventies.
According to Mr. Shipman there is a bed of ten feet of 'Torrential Gravel,' and two to six feet of Glacial Drift (pebbly loam) deposited during, or shortly after, the Great Ice Age, when the Leen Valley was occupied by a broad sheet of water swiftly moving to the Trent.
gave the Parish more land to extend the graveyard to the south and closer to the hall.
Senior Girls were transferred to the canton Girls' School on Station Road, and the Senior Boys to Chandos Street Boys' School, Netherfield.
Young William Clay, the Registrar of Southwell Minster, had been married to Joan Williamson, of Fiskerton Manor, in the parish of Rolleston, in 1642.
To the west, on rising ground, is the little church and parish of Tithby; to the south the wooded eminence crowned by the church of Langar; and to the east a wide expanse of fertile country, with the Leicestershire hills and the lordly castle of Belvoir for the background.
John Elston, parson, 'to be buried in ye Kirke Yarde of Shelton afore the Kirk door, at the east side.
The fine vestry adjoining, designed by Bodley; St. Mary's Hall; the Plumptre Street Clergy House, now exchanged for one on Kaye's Walk, and other improvements in the fabric of St. Mary's, are largely due to his generosity and enterprise.
given by Roger, the thirty-first Archbishop, to a chapel near the great church at York.
We leave the town by Sparken Hill, passing Worksop College on the left-one of the Woodard Schools for the education of the children of Church of England parents- and in about a couple of miles Clumber Park is reached.
This combined force marched towards York, while Henry was advancing to Nottingham.
There is a distinct angle in the garden wall of the latter house in Bede House Lane, in old days the main Coddington and Sleaford Road, which may be the point where the wall crossed this Lane.
To the front of the house, which faces south, is an old fashioned garden and lawn, and kitchen garden beyond, bounded on the south-east by a broad ditch, which is evidently a portion of the original moat.
MIDWAY between Dunham-on-Trent and Darlton the high road describes an abrupt turn to the north, and at this point passes through some ancient earthworks.
The fine old village of Sturton-le-Steeple, sometimes called Sturton-in-the-Clay, has a station on the Great Central Railway.
A house at 19, Castle Gate (corner of Stanford Street), a large brick building with stone sparingly used-is also characteristic of their mode of treatment.
Foremost among the men who undertook this pioneer work were John Coxon, Enoch and Job James, Joseph Randle, Isaiah Merrick, John Mattley, Isaac Stevens, Samuel Hooton, James Tyler, and John Lindley.
Joan Clay's grave is in Rolleston Churchyard.
Thomas Gunthorpe, Rector of Babworth, founded First Grammar School in Retford, in Bridgegate.
Wysall Church is dedicated to the Holy Trinity, and comprises western tower and spire, south porch, nave with south aisle and chancel.
After this signal service the Lord Admiral, with Lord Clinton and the fleet, scoured the coast of Scotland.
Of the buildings of the outer court, which must have included various offices for the business of the convent, a guest-house and the almonry near the gate-house, nothing is left; and the low range of buildings south-west of the Sussex tower added by Colonel Wildman is entirely modern.
It is thought that this doorway led, by some kind of short passage, to the head of the stairway that ascended from the south cloister to the monks' refectory (now the Great Drawing-Room).
The hour-glass mark is found at Hastings Castle, at Roche, Kirkstall and Fountains Abbeys, St. Mary's Nottingham, and York, Lincoln, and Canterbury Cathedrals.
Other routes serve the east and north-east portion of the town by way of Woodborough Road, St. Ann's Well Road and Carlton Road.
The south arcade, south door, chancel arch and chapels come next, belonging to the transitional period between the Norman and early English styles.
When brick building first came into vogue in this district, early in the 17th century, and indeed for some time thereafter, it was customary to build upon a stone foundation.
At the upper end of Walnut Tree Lane looking towards Castle Gate may be seen numerous remains of delightful Stuart buildings with their high pitched straight edged gables and even in one or two cases the ancient casements still remaining in use.
The very fine white marble fountain in the centre came from Italy.
With the introduction of the Great Northern Railway into the town in 1898, disappeared a unique entrance leading into the above familiar Croft, situate adjacent to the Public Free Library.
The locality of the Priory is perpetuated in the names of the streets, Abbey Street, Priory Street, Cloister Street, Friar Street, Choral Yard, etc. Derbigate (Derby Road), so named in 1301, is now the most interesting road out of Nottingham.
The south chancel wall with its doorway and three windows and chancel arch are held to be late Saxon work.
The close of the seventeenth century saw the Thurgarton estate pass by devise to Mr. John Gilbert, who also took the name of Cooper.
This being done a considerable portion of the monastic nave and north aisle was thrown into the parish church, and the monastic church was contracted to the choir, transepts, and the eastern bays of the nave and north aisle, all of which were destroyed at the Dissolution ; the parish church portion alone remaining.
When the chancel was rebuilt by George Edmund Street, in 1872, the monument was removed to the south wall of the Early English tower.
This settlement at Clifton appears to have extended a little over 100 yards down stream, and stretched two-thirds across the river, continuing under the haulage path on the Nottingham side.
The tradition is that Nicholas Heath, the last Prior, was hanged for his share in the Pilgrimage of Grace, outside the Abbey Gate which crossed the road just opposite the White Hart.
Butt-dike, the address of the artist, is now called Park Row, the hollow, i.e. 'the dike,' being just outside the town wall, where archery was practised in the olden times.
The decoy-a small wood, was enclosed by Sir Thomas Parkyns as a decoy for ducks.
The east windows at Nuthall and Bilborough are also good examples of the style.
shews the tail wheel, wind shaft, two tail stones, vats, hoppers, sack tackle chain, rope etc., in the fine post mill at Gissing, Norfolk.
Sketch map showing Nottingham's excellent facilities for transport of goods by river and canal.
One entrance to Welbeck is through magnificent hammered-iron, bronzed, oak-leaf gates, between the second and third of the five lakes.
The present large kitchen was built by the second Earl of Shrewsbury, when he came into residence here in 1458-9, to replace the original kitchen, which was on the opposite side of the hall.
A worthy resident, Hercules Clay, some time Mayor of Newark, resided in a house at the corner of the market-place not far from the Governor's mansion.
Master of the King's staghounds in Shirewood Forest- a Justice of the Peace-and Deputy Lieu- tenant for this county.
The Ambergate Company continued to convey the Great Northern traffic over the Midland lines until 1857, permission was then obtained to extend the Ambergate lines to Nottingham at the same time as the Great Northern were allowed to take over the Ambergate Company.
Trees in this wood, protected from rough weather by proximity to each other, seem to lead an ideal life.
Ollerton Road from Retford is shown on the map of the Award, but before the railway came, this road took a sharp turn to the right, towards the present Babworth Goods Station, and then direct to the canal bridge by Myrtle Street.
A pavement on the bed of the river at Littleborough still marks the point at which the Roman road from Lincoln to Doncaster and York crossed the Trent.
Bottom Buildings is the name of the cluster of streets-Windmill, Parker, Lea, and Brassey streets-which formerly stood in the fields.
In this county the richest flora, which includes such forms as the columbine, rock rose (Helianthemum), and bladder campion (Silene cucubalus), is found on the Magnesian Limestone, but this occupies only eight per cent.
Towards the East and the lane onely parting the aforesaid Homestead & Cowpasture wch is a pasture ground And abutts West upon the land East upon High Close & South on Sr.
Bishop Mosley's Church Extension Appeal and the present Bishop's Forward Movement both sought to provide further churches where square miles of suburban Nottingham are scarcely as yet provided for.
The south porch to Bunny church is a hybrid specimen with parapets at the side in place of dripping eaves, and a curved pediment in front; for, curiously enough, the stone roofing is made to follow the line of the vault within.
Another type of well appears to have obtained in the case of rock dwellings in the town cliff, entered from the meadow level, as we assume from what survived until just recently at Sneinton Hermitage.
At one time this was a narrow pack-horse road, paved with slabs of local stone, leading straight from Trent Bridge, up through the town, across the Lammas fields, by Aspley, Strelley, Cossall, and on into Derbyshire.
Situated on the eastern side of Mansfield Road, some 2 miles from Nottingham Market Place, is the fine new building estate known as Woodthorpe.
South-east from the chancel there is an interesting tomb covered by a large stone slab with this inscription: -
John Shadrach Piercy was baptised on 9 December 1801 in the Yorkshire village of Rillington, near Malton.
In 1931, the village was connected up to the Nottingham Electricity supply, the Electricity used for lighting was at the same charge as previously supplied by the Nottingham and Colwick Estates, but the electricity for heating and power was one penny per unit cheaper.
Fishpond Drive marks the site of the old ornamental lake still existing after the Dukes of Newcastle came in to possession.
He built the Saxon Minster at York.
This firm was founded by the Nottingham Quaker, William Lawrence, in a garret room on Greyhound Street, Long Row, Nottingham, in 1875.
Sir John Hall, of Hororata, Canterbury, New Zealand, came over to visit the places in England connected with his ancestors and gave this window to Ordsall Church.
A Fish Stage and Dock for Horse, Carriage, and Motor traffic is connected with this side of the station.
This was one field from Ollerton Road to Church Lane.
Forty feet wide from Ordsall Town Street, over Ordsall Common to an ancient gate in the parish of Eaton.
The curious names of the next four streets on the eastern side, Peach Street, Pear Street, Plum Street and Current Street tell of gardens which occupied the ground years ago.
The kitchen gardens are formed in separate compartments, and they extend as far as the Mansfield turnpike road, near to the Welbeck Gas Works.
The Jacobean Survey mentioned above gives the names of the six fields of Lenton and Radford as Beck Field, More Field, Red Field, Church Field, Sand Field, and Alwell Field, and the amounts of land held in each.
This discovery was made a few years ago, when the font was removed from the west to the south doorway.
The parish church (key at the post office) consists of nave and south aisle, chancel, porch and a tower decorated with pinnacles, from which springs a low, plain spire.
The Thurland Hall public house on the corner of Thurland Street and Pelham Street (A Nicholson, 2004).
County Council, on land given by Viscount Galway, for sixty children, forty being in average attendance; the loan being  1,050, at 33/4 per cent.
A full view of the river can only be obtained from one or two of the upper rooms in the house, for the park is thickly studded with lofty trees-beech, elm, and horse chestnut, wide spreading and thickly foliaged.
Chinese Bell Pagoda in the Arboretum in the 1920s.
His canopied tomb is in Wollaton Church, on the south side of the chancel.
There is also a fine monument to William Cartwright in the little Church at Ossington, which stands in the Hall gardens.
It has not at present been possible to ascertain the position of any more boundary wall or other buildings lying between the south-east angle of the great cloister and the gate-house block, to complete the circuit of the monastery.
We will now go up Glasshouse-street, leading to St Ann's-street, at the corner of which is
The parish of Radford is bounded on the west by Ilkeston Road, but it is impossible not to regard the two large Council Schools, All Souls' Church, the Recreation Ground, Cobden Park, and the Marsh, although nominally in Lenton, practically as being in Radford, which also comprises Aspley, Bobbers Mill, with a crooked line drawn by the Mill-in-the-hole, to Shipstone Street, by or a little north of Gladstone Street to Sherwood Rise, and the boundary, excluding the Forest, runs up Noel Street, Bentinck Road, Peverel Street, and Alfreton Road.
The present church consists of chancel with north vestry, nave of a little more than three bays, with clerestory, north and south aisles, tower, with belfry containing five bells, and surmounted by a spire.
The boundary of Clipston Park was formerly at this tree, which stood in the park fence, but in the time of Edward III.
It was a noble beech covering woo square yards, and contained upwards of forty tons of wood.
Colliery to the Bulwell Road, near Forge Mills.
The new comers would find several beautiful springs rising to the west of what we call Calverton Road, and near to the foot of the hill, one being at the top of Church Lane.
Forest Street can boast of containing both the Midland Railway Stations, the Public Free Library, the Conservative Club, and King's Theatre, with several other important undertakings on its side.
square, doubtless with transepts, and with a nave extending as far as the western end of the present nave, about 32ft.
The huge unpretentious building to the right is the Nottingham Union Workhouse, and the turret to the left of that surmounts one of the Board Schools-the Huntingdon-street Board School, a neat brick building, in the first street to the left.
It is proposed during the present restoration to remove the unsightly curtains from the east archway in the north aisle and fill in the opening with a suitable oak screen.
In early days a toll house was erected at the bottom of the hill, probably about opposite the present Toll Street, hence the name, and Derby Road itself was called Toll House Hill until 1855.
The Governor's House on Stodman Street The Governor's House on Stodman Street dates from the late 15th century.
Width of South Transept from East to West 19 ft.
A building, called the chapel, existed until the beginning of the nineteenth century, having a separate service and separate registers for the parish church, though situated only about 80 yards away in the south corner of Staunton churchyard.
Width of North Transept from East to West 19 ft.
This water they piped along by the side of the Leen in nine-inch iron pipes to the bottom of the Castle Rock.
Going south, down Gilli-flower-hill, the stranger will see some tenements on the left, hewn out of the solid rock, fitted up with windows, doors, chimneys, &c.
At Kenilworth Castle, Fountains and Roche Abbeys, Lincoln Cathedral.
The principal Goods Offices are in Carrington Street, facing Station Street, and connected at the rear by an expansive glazed awning is a commodious Storage Warehouse and Goods Shed, electrically lighted and fully equipped with hydraulic power for loading and unloading general goods, which are completely protected from the weather.
In the appurtenances of the Priory are included the dove-cots, pools, kitchen gardens, and vivaries-doubtless rabbit warrens, for which Newstead is still celebrated.
A range of stabling and offices, with well-appointed kennels, was erected in 1778, a little eastward of the hall.
Above this floor is the loft, stored with a good selection of dried timber, in well-arranged racks ready for use, shafts, spokes, felloes, bar iron, steel channels for rubber tyres, and other materials.
The 16th century brick gatehouse to Hodsock Priory.
The descendants of this warrior had held property in this county long before Wiverton came into their possession.
From the King's Stand in a southerly direction, other limits of the forest were at Gleadthorpe, Warsop, Pleasley Mill, near Newbold Mill, Teversall Bridge, near Hardwick Hall, Linby Mill, Bulwell, Basford, Radford Mill, and the Trent Bridge, Nottingham.
Date panel in Sussex Street, Nottingham.
Simon's Hall in Forest Fields with Sunday School and Sunday evening services, and a mission centre in Court Street (behind the Grand Theatre).
this ancient mansion is now the Old Angel public house at this end of St. Mary's Gate, facing the County Hall.
Long before the 13th century walling-in of the joint towns this western line was established as the great through north road of the eastern half of this island.
It occurs on the before mentioned north doorway at Clifton, and on the west doorway at Scarrington, where may also be seen, what is, I believe the only specimen of the 'ball-flower' enrichment to be found on a doorway, in this county, although in other districts it was profusely employed.
He joined the Baptist Church in Park Street; and in 1796 proceeded as a missionary carpenter to the Southern Seas in the Duff.
Buck's view shows a large square building with a pyramidal roof and a lateral chimney at this point.
The 'lias-plain' extends to the base of the hill at Lincoln.
The pulling down of the north wall has revealed the interesting fact that the Norman tower was built up against an earlier Saxon wall, constructed of more durable mortar than the Norman work.
He lived chiefly at Birdsall and his deer forest, Applecross, so was but little known in this county.
Edmund Brown, son of Paul, of Butterwick, Line.
The Quorn hounds always met in Bunny Park in the season.
East of where Mundella School stands, and between it and 'The King's Highway' (London Road), was a field called 'The Water Wessh.
Towards the East and the lane onely parting the aforesaid Homestead & Cowpasture wch is a pasture ground And abutts West upon the land East upon High Close & South on Sr.
Stage III, the chalk became land-layer by layer was dissolved away, until this flint was left with many others on the ground.
It opens to the nave through a remarkably thick wall, by a round arch of three square-edged orders with square abacus.
Turning to the chancel, we see an east window of two lights with rather nice trefoil heart in tracery at head.
imparked a hundred acres of common land in Scrockby.
Portland Place extends from Coalpit Lane to Cur Lane, and formerly had small gardens in the middle of it.
At a place where the Nottingham-Derby road crossed the Leen, was a wooden bridge for pedestrians only, other traffic crossing by a ford.
The Forest Infectious Hospital is situated on the Southwell Road, and the Small Pox Hospital, on Brick Kiln Lane.
Thus arose the Benedictine Order, which had a large priory in this county at Blyth.
At the time of Domesday Survey (1068) this village contained no fewer than five water-power mills for grinding corn, a cluster of humble dwellings, four old manor-houses, and, older than the manor-houses, "and older than the yew which saw the manor-houses abuilding," a church which stood on the right bank of the stream hard by an ancient ford.
From the pumping station the water is forced up to reservoirs situated at a height sufficient to secure their being above the highest point which requires a supply.
A little wall of rock, some four feet high, separated it from the primitive ditch, then displayed for the first time in history.
This work seems to mark the incorporation of the parish church of Blyth into the monastic church.
The Bysets had long held land at East Bridgeford, and many years before had granted Cliff Mill (Clive Milne) at Lowdham to the Priory at Thurgarton.
The king, in the hope of effecting a junction with the Earl of Montrose in Scotland, had pushed north and reached Doncaster on August 19th.
Boundaries Surface and General Features Rivers-(i) The Trent Rivers-(ii) The Tributaries of the Trent Geology and Soil Natural History Reclaimed Land Climate and Rainfall People-Origin, Race, Population Agriculture-Crops and Stock Industries Mines and Minerals Water-Supply History of the County Antiquities Architecture-(a) Ecclesiastical Architecture-(b) Military Architecture-(c) Domestic Communications-Past and Present Administration-Past and Present Roll of Honour Towns and Villages The Making of Nottingham The Chief Towns and Villages of Nottinghamshire Diagrams Geological map of Nottinghamshire
Between Retford and Gainsborough the railway runs past the village of Sturton-le-Steeple, the massive tower of whose parish church is a prominent feature in the landscape.
An oak tree was felled in Wood Lane and bowers made of the branches thereof on The Green.
He came from Bully, near Rouen, and received very large grants of land, including practically the whole of North Notts, except the King's Manors.
The strip of ground, forty-three feet wide, between the cloister wall and the outer wall on these three sides, was divided up into a number of little gardens, in which stood the separate cells of the monks.
Little cottages or huts dotted either side of the main lane or street which to-day bears the several names of West-street, South-street, and High-street.
miles NE of Tuxford is a system of earth-works embracing an area of about 7 acres.
Cobden Park is not a park, but a number of streets- formerly fields-east, south, and west of the old Cotton mill, off Ilkeston Road.
Deering's view of St. Nicholas Church from the north, published in 1751, and showing the church before the addition of the north aisle in 1783.
The south ditch, was the low meadow, backed by the river Trent, where the cliff of the town was a sure defence of itself.
St. Catherine's Well, near the 'Queen's Sconce' known since the 14th century as Holy Well, Our Lady's Well, St. Catherine's Well, and Sutton Spring.
In 1712 Mr. Musters, who was at this time under-ranger of Sherwood Forest, during which time the Nottingham Corporation were involved in a case with the Earl of Chesterfield for clearing trees from the "Coppice" area.
It is a straggling village on the east bank of the Chesterfield Canal, with an interesting church representative of good Early English arcnitecture with later additions, the north wall of the nave, however, being Norman work.
Just at the corner of Shepperson Street are the Wollaton Street alms houses of which the Mayor has disposal and whose inmates although they get no pension receive a load of coal at Christmas.
Chequy or and gules, on a bend vert a moor's head between two annulets or, a canton ermine.
In August, 1883, Mr. Marsh took a small house in Station Street where Mothers' Meetings, Men's Institute, Guild Meetings, etc., were held.
This Church is situated on the north side of the town, near the Railway Station, and has had an Ecclesiastical District assigned to it, the River Ryton being the boundary to the south.
Thrumpton was a small hamlet in the Parish of Ordsall, and there is a village of the same name near Nottingham.
ON the eastern boundary of the great forest of Sherwood and on the edge of an escarpment overlooking a valley dividing Nottinghamshire from Derbyshire, lies the parish of Kirkby-in-Ashfield.
A low relief stone and some stained glass in Mattersey Church probably came from the priory.
Above the "casement" in the cluster-column facing north-west, set about with stiff-leaf foliage, is the sculptured bust of a female, possibly the prioress of Catesby; facing south-west, a bishop with hand uplifted in blessing.
Wingfield manor-house stands upon a commanding eminence overlooking the Amber valley, dominated by higher hills, which separate it from the Derwent valley on its western side.
During the 18th century hop-growing became common, poles for the hops being provided by the neighbouring woods and the produce going to the markets of Tuxford and Ollerton.
Another similar local supply was from wells behind the 'Hand and Heart,' Derby Road.
A.D. 1411-John Barker, of Hucknall, owned a garden by the side of Barker Gate, Nottingham.
It was built only a stone's throw from the castle walls and was the parish and place of worship for the satellite population that huddled in the small streets below the castle walls.
The estate covered approximately twenty-nine square miles and in addition to the ancient Liberty of Rufford it included the parishes of Bilsthorpe, Eakring and most of Ollerton, Ompton, Boughton, Wellow, and extended into Blidworth, Edwinstowe, Egmanton, Farnsfield, Kirton, Tuxford and Walesby.
Tomb of Francis Montagu at St. James' Church, Papplewick (photo: A Nicholson, 2005).
Private Carriage and Bridle Road, 20 feet wide, branching from Eaton Road over Ordsall Common and leading to an ancient lane called Marsh Lane.
Wong: obsolete, except in place-names; a plain, field; a piece of meadow land; specially a portion of unenclosed land under the open-field system; now surviving locally in the proper designations of certain fields or common lands.
THERE are few rural villages with which the early history of the colonization of the United States is entwined in so interesting a manner as it is with that of Scrooby, a little cluster of cottages surrounded by a few larger residences near the Great Northern Railway, between Retford and Bawtry.
The fine hexagonal tower at the north-west corner, a similar one in the middle of the west wall, and a Great Hall lighted by means of large pointed windows, were built at this time.
Passing this institution on the Wells Road we come into touch with another main tram line-that along St. Anne's Well Road.
The mansion, which stands on what was once a waste of forest land, was built in 1770 of white freestone, which was brought from a quarry on the Duke's estate five miles away.
There was clearly a small square tower balancing the stair turret and having its barrel-vaulted floors approached from the curtain.
A battlemented square tower stands at the back, and two domed turrets connect a sort of curtain wall.
C. S. Millard, of Costock, in the absence of the rector of the parish, pointed out the different monuments and histories attaching thereto.
Underneath the Exchange and facing the market-place, are four shops, but the principal part of the ground floor, is laid out in extensive shambles.
expressly excepted the Castle and 'the king's house upon High Pavement,' and this king's house stood upon the site of a portion of the present Shire Hall.
The large building in Coppice Road is the Private Hospital for Lunatics, and the still larger one in the neighbouring Wells Road is the City Lunatic Asylum.
For example, in the criminal court, while the prisoner at the bar stood in the county the judge sat in the city, for the ancient boundary passed between them.
In addition to the river service with the Humber ports, there is a canal service via Leicester and the Grand Junction Canal between Nottingham and London, and also services between Nottingham and Birmingham, Manchester, Liverpool, etc. The service is mainly by steam or motor barges, and the canal carriers have first-class accommodation for the storage and handling of traffic.
Thence the route lies along busy Arkwright Street, past the new Midland Railway Station, Carrington Street, to the Market Place.
Some Names more recent *Back Lane, about 1780 Wollaton Street, 1852 Back Side, 1576 Parliament Street, about 1770 Bargate (Road), near 1255 Chapel Bar, about 1760 Bakers' Street, 1314, Baxtergate, 1395, Whelewryghtgate, 1473 Wheelergate, 1677 Berward Lane, 1315 Mount Street, 1800 * Beck Barn, 18th Century Beck Street, 1830 *Beck Lane, 1408 Heathcote St, about 1874 (wider) Belwordgate, 1315 Bellargate, 1650 Benite-lane, 1641 'At the Marsh end ' Blacclivegate, 1307 (Lenton) 'Land lying upon ' Blowbladder-Street (see Monthallgate) Boot-lane, 1744 Milton Street, 1812 *(Widened 1829, and 1902) * Bowling Alley (see Lingdal' Brighend, 1362; Red Lion Sq.
On this floor is also situated the Library, the well-known Book-Lovers' Library, which is illustrated on this page.
The houses and shops on the south side bear the name of Angel-row, the Beast-market-hill, the Poultry, and South-parade.
The Bridle Road to the Parish Church formerly ran by the end of the house, and a Footpath ran through the field on which Westfield House now stands, and a Saw Pit stood where those two roads met.
The organ was presented to Papplewick Church, August 28th, 1864, by Henry Fraser Walter, Esq.
Next > View of castle excavations, looking south-west.
but at the eastern boundary of Boots' Athletic ground Bridgford parish stretches to the present Trent course, and near this point the Bridgford brook, formerly much larger than now, having run right through the parish, and under Radcliffe road, and the Canal, proceeds oastwardly towards the Trent.
The Moot Hall in Mansfield The Moot Hall in Mansfield Market Place, given in 1752 by Lady Oxford of Welbeck Abbey (A. Nicholson, 2000).
The gas-works erected to supply the subterranean road-way, stables, offices, and all the domestic offices with gas, are situated near the new Worksop and Mansfield road.
James's Gazette,' during a meeting of the Church Congress, held in Nottingham.
Monument to Lord Byron at Hucknall Church (A Nicholson, 2002).
High on the chancel wall is the casque or steel helmet, and banner of a Willoughby of the 17th century.
Its flood plain provides a home for sand-loving, clay-loving and moisture-loving plants ; whilst its waters are rich in many kinds of snails, bivalves, and fishes.
Now, however, the whole is in a high state of cultivation, or covered with thriving plantations of oak, larch, and other useful timber trees.
The total number palaces, among them being 'The Picture House' in Long Row, the 'Elite,' at the top of King Street and Queen Street, the 'Scala,' in Market Street, the Goldsmith Street Picture Palace and the Parliament Street Picture Palace.
The roof has four slightly cambered tie-beams supported by well-carved angels bearing shields upon corbels in the walls.
William Arthur Henry Cavendish-Bentinck, Marquess of Litchfield, born at 3, Grosvenor Square, 16 March 1893; educated at Eton.
His waggons started from Silk Mill Yard, Parliament Street, which was about where Norfolk Place now is.
Lawrence Collin's House, off Castle-gate
Portions of his garden attached to Newdigate House still remain behind the high brick wall fronting on to Castle Gate.
Watchers were appointed to guard burial grounds, graves were enclosed within iron palisades, but the most efficient was the brick vault and combrous table-tomb that could not be tampered with without noise.
After the Reformation, many porches were rebuilt in plain brick-work (Edwalton); in some cases, a sundial painted on a board, was fixed in the gable, in place of the image niche.
On the other side the Castle was the little river of Line, and beyond that large flat meadows bounded by the Trent.
Long Hedge Lane (now Gordon Road) was surrounded by fields, and from the old Pottery (now Cowen's Foundry) eastward, there was not a house.
West Retford 'Field' enclosed, and Act obtained for Mac-Adams' Great North Road, to pass through Retford: at this date, for 100 yards to the West of Bridge, it was a swamp-no causeway-large stepping stones.
Westward from Wilford Road (Trent Lane) to Trent Wong.
At Darlton, a south doorway has detached jamb-shafts, with water-leaf capitals, and a plain arch-moulding, having bold outstanding dog-tooth ornaments on the hood-moulding.
The mode of conveying the stone to the south-side of the Trent may perplex us unless we bear in mind that while transport by road was restricted in those days, transport by water was freely resorted to.
A 'Parish Register' was to be appointed in every parish, by Cromwell's Parliament.
This Baston, ten years earlier, was made custodian of the waters, mills, meadows, and the rabbit warren in Nottingham.
Peter), nave; Orston, nave and chancel; Plumtre, nave and south aisle; Radcliffe-on-Soar; Rolleston, except tower; Screveton, chancel, nave, and aisles; Shelford, nave and chancel; South Leverton, nave and chancel; South Muskham; Sturton-le-Steeple, nave; Sutton Bonington (St.
The fourth Earl, therefore, left Haughton for Welbeck, and Haughton Hall was permitted to fall into decay.
There was unquestionably a manor, village or parish church here long before the foundation of this priory, which embraced the three divisions of land above noted, all known by the name of Blyth, in the great survey of 1086.
They are in full leaf on this August day, and in the transient periods of sunshine the road bestrewn with the green-looking little husks, which contain the tiny fruit of these giant trees; is flecked with restless patches of light.
Many square miles of the most fertile land in the county have by these means been rendered available for cultivation.
The first meeting-house was in a dwelling at the top of Bedlam Court (now Lord Street), off Parliament Street in 1837.
wide, is semi-circular, in two orders, having a plain square-edged inner order and soffit, an outer order of massive chevron mouldings and a hood-moulding to correspond with the tower arch.
Loyd Grossman, Chairman of The Churches Conservation Trust, will be giving a talk entitled 'The English Parish Church: a National Treasure' at 7.30pm in Southwell Minster Great Hall on 23rd March 2012.
White Cow Yard is entered from Scotland Place through a covered passage, at the north-west of which will be noticed a few old stones used as a footing for the brick wall.
The village of Grove lies east-south-east of East Retford.
in Montagu Street, Portman Square.
Near Crossland's Meadow
The plan is a distorted square, or, perhaps more accurately, a regular trapezoid, the longer of the two parallel sides being the water front of the castle, which rises above the River Slea.
Plumtree Square was raised so as to ease the gradient and this improvement is still very noticeable, at the same time the pass between Short Hill and Scotland Place was slacked off and a saddle formed through which Hollowstone passed.
The ruined chapel stands on the bank of a stream, overshadowed by fir trees and looking out upon a broad expanse of meadow-land.
This small priory of St. Mary was situated at Wallingwells or Walden-le-Wells, in the park of Carlton-in-Lindrick, on the northwest side of our county, adjoining Yorkshire.
The west window, between the towers, is of unusually large size, considering its date.
Hugh Smyth, rector, 'to be buried in the churchyard, against the entrance of the porch.
Coming to later times, Viscount Sherbrooke, famous as Mr. Robert Lowe, was born at the rectory house at Bingham; and the son of another Rector is Mr. Frank Miles, the well-known artist.
Thomas Elmham was appointed by the prior of St. Pancras, Lewes, chamberlain and vicar-general of the abbot of Cluny in England and Scotland.
The next village to Averham on the road to Southwell is Upton, whose Perpendicular church-tower is a feature in the landscape, and bearing to the right is the still smaller village of Hockerton.
The western outlook from Cockpit Hill is occupied mainly by the Western Hills, that from Gringley by an extensive area of low country, the Vale of the Idle.
Centre of Rolleston Village, 1931, showing enclosed ground previously forming Village Green
Cardinal Wolsey rode from Kirkby to Nottingham.
The west window in the tower is a good example of Pre-Raphaelite tendencies.
Alderman Albert Ball in 1908 purchased the Bulwell Hall Estate, including the hall and 575 acres of land, the mineral rights, etc., and being a member of the Corporation he offered to assign the contract at cost price, without profit, namely  85,000, which was accepted by the City Council.
Protected on the east and north by big hills, and slightly shaded on the west, it received all the benefit of a southern sun.
These shops may still be seen on the left hand side of the road between Wright Wilson Street and Albert Road).
The word 'forest' did not mean a large group of woods and plantations, but was used to describe open heath land not under cultivation.
This was a large pond or drinking place for cattle in the possession of the Lord of the Manor, lined with clay and fed by springs from the higher ground.
Manor Farmhouse, a late 17th century stone house, is on the far right; the tiny church of St Giles sits in the middle.
Theborough of East Retford is situated in the North Clay Division of the Hundred of Bassetlaw, in the north-eastern part of the county of Nottingham, in latitude fifty-three degrees nineteen minutes forty-six seconds north, and fifty-one minutes forty-nine seconds of west longitude, on the eastern bank of the river Idle.
From the bell-chamber another steep ascent leads to the top of the tower.
A penny tram ride carries passengers nearly the length of Forest-road, starting from and to the Cemetery gates.
The Norman gatehouse at Newark Castle (A Nicholson, 2005).
Beauvale Charterhouse is situated in a pleasant valley falling to the west, in the parish of Greasley, nine miles north-west from Nottingham.
The stone wall-breast high-a relic of post-Conquest bitterness-still divided the great Market Place, extending from near the Butter Cross in front of the New Change to the Malt Cross-opposite Sheep Lane.
A Free Public Reading room and Reference Library on Hucknall Road, was opened in 1889, in a building formerly used as a Chapel.
On the Education Department condemning the Folly, Meadows, or Nottingham Road Infants' School, as being unsuitable and insufficient, a piece of land on the Mansfield Road, containing 1210 square yards, was purchased on 7th August, 1879, from Mr. Francis Williamson, whereon a school was built.
The gates at the entrance to Watnall Hall are a very fine specimen of smiths' work, and worthy of inspection.
The clerestory is fine and lofty, and is pierced north and south by four Tudor arched windows of three lights each and with cinquefoiled heads.
The register of burials at St. Simon's Church in that city contains the entry, 'Henry Wylby of Middleton Hall in the county of Warwick, Esquire,' and ....
There is clay on the north-western side of the parish, where there was a brick-yard, which was closed in 1837, after Mr. Alfred Fellows had built 'Beeston Fields' house on the site.
Nottingham is located a little to the south-east of the centre of England, and is bounded on the north by Hucknall Torkard (the burial place of Byron), on the east by Bestwood, Arnold, a portion of Gedling, and Colwick, on the south by West Bridgford and Wilford, and on the west by Wollaton, Bilborough, Beeston, and Nuthall.
The hills were in the olden time covered with woods.
Within the county Cropwell is noted for sheep, Ruddington for cattle, Carlton-on-Trent for shire horses, Edwinstowe for hunters, Colston Basset for pigs.
This tomb is evidently by the same sculptor as one in Strelley church to John de Strelley, who married Saunchia Willoughby.
West of the priory, the dammed-up stream forms a lake, from which it descends in a south-easterly direction to another sheet of water south of the house, and thence to a broad lower lake.
A small brick building was added to the tower about thirty years ago, and used for occasional services; but more recently the building seems to have become a barn.
There is a well-painted Jacobean board, bearing the Royal Arms, over the arch dividing the chancel from the nave.
The old theatre was in St. Mary's-gate, near St. Mary's Church.
Other objects of interest are the Gilstrap Free Library, in Castle Gate, the Ossington Coffee Tavern, near the main street, and the well-preserved Beaumont Cross, some five hundred years old.
The palace stood in the large field near the station, which is bordered by the line of railway on the east and the river on the north.
One stood in Poplar Street, near the Bakehouse, and the other in a garden now covered by Jenkins' works.
Henry Thicket, on death of H. Alexander - Patron, Horatio David Davies of Wateringbury Place, Kent.
The orchard used to be enclosed by a high and substantial wall along New Street, High Pavement, and Wood Street, and a portion of the ground was set apart as a bowling green.
At about the same time, the vacant plot to the west of the school was purchased by L.E.A. for school extensions, but the land to be used at first for playing fields.
which have now left Wollaton Hall, would reveal whether any stone was obtained from Lenton Priory during the building of the Hall (1580-88).
About 1480 Edward Grey, Lord Lisle, came to Nottingham with an armed force and threatened Sir Henry, but afterwards they arranged this marriage to heal the breach.
A plan of the Bulwell Hall estate, when it was sold in 1864, shows the Clay field in long, narrow strips, reaching from Coventry Eoad to a brook at the top.
The Parochial Office used to be in the Market Place; in Forest Street; in Mount Street; in the old British School (1885); in the small building in Welbeck Street now used by Mr. C. Clayton, boot repairer; and now in Wood Street.
All the windows of the nave, as well as the west window in the tower, were reglazed with tinted cathedral quarries.
The walling of the south aisle at Plumtree is composed of blue lias rubble, mixed with large boulders gathered from the fields, with dressings of local 'water-stone' or skerry.
CANAL STREET which extends all the way from the junction of Wilford Road with Castle Boulevard to Leenside, into which it runs opposite Lees Yard, is not a particularly old thoroughfare.
Mellors related that a plan of the Bulwell Hall Estate when it was sold in 1864 showed the Clay Field in long narrow strips reaching from Coventry-road to a brook at the top.
A large part of Ordsall Parish was included in the Manor of Dunham, and was under the Lord of that Manor in former days.
For a church at Lynmouth, Sandwich, Witham Basin.
There are still signs of the mill in Radford Marsh, known in Godfrey's time as the Prior's Mill.
The monastery of Dale had a wood of fifteen acres in Shortwood, in this parish, which Queen Elizabeth granted to Sir Christopher Hutton, who became Lord High Chancellor of England.
Tomb of Lady Anne Stanhope at Shelford.
The bass bell was from Thomas Hedderley's Nottingham foundry, and is dated 1749.
All Europe was suffering from the same evil.
The Plaisaunce is a summer riverside Recreation Club House, with extensive grounds, built and formed by Sir Jesse Boot, for the use of.
Attended by his servant, Herbert, and by Juxon, Bishop of London, they walked through St. James's Park.
Before the introduction of gas generally in the parish there was a limited supply from the Mill to separate houses, necessarily at a high rate.
It is not therefore to be wondered at that later on the road to the north went by Hucknall Road, over Bulwell Forest, by Papplewick, and Mansfield, on which route there were a number of villages before reaching Rufford, and Blyth, on the way to Doncaster and York.
returning on Saturday, and services also regularly worked to Leicester, Mansfield, Derby, Melton, Loughborough, Leeds, Sheffield, Lincoln, Boston, and many other places.
Linn (hlynna) = a pool or mere or rivulet, and Tun = a town, village or hill, by the side of the Linn or Lin or Line, hence Linntun.
Thus four ancient roads converge from Littleborough, Sutton-in-Ashfield, Rempstone, and Balderton upon one point, Bawtry.
Midway between Broxtowe and Strelley lies the little hamlet of Bilborough.
In the county of Nottingham; the manor of Colston Bassett, 27 messuages, 1 windmill, 1 dovecote, 892 acres pasture, 20 acres heath and brury, and 8s.
In June, 1926, parish magazine, the Rector, remarked about the speed of traffic on the main road through the village, and the sharp corners at Chaworth road and the Hall Bridge.
The parish church at Burton-on-Trent is St. Modwen's.
A great feature in this kitchen garden is a glass covered south wall, used as an orchard-house, and a wire trellised arcade for the growing of the best sorts of dessert pears and apples.
No induction to the rectory of Strelley to be granted without Nicholas Strelley, Esq.
At Harby ample provision was made by the Queen's will for the perpetual celebration of memorial services.
Blyth church from the south-east.
On the east side of the porch, intersecting the roof there is a division in the aisle wall which leads to the theory that at some time this was the west limit of the aisle.
The entrance to the hall was placed at the servants' end, whereas the "high table" at which the lord and lady sat, occupied the upper or solar end, away from the draughty entrance.
It thus had become the property of Worksop Priory; and in the 14th Edward I. a charter of free warren was granted to the Prior of that house in this place, as well as in Shireoaks.
Colwick Church-Tomb on south side of chancel.
Adjoining Old Kadford cotton mill he had a mission hall (still called the Chapel), and Sunday school.
The parish of Scrooby is at the extreme north of the County of Nottingham, from the City of which it is about thirty-four miles distant, and eight miles from Retford, its market town.
The Bulwell stone is coarse and granular, and through its use for common architectural purposes 'such as garden walls, the rag-stone is a familiar local sight.
and the four-light window from the north wall of the old nave of West Bridgford parish church).
Captaines John Elvidge Capt Dayle Jo Rich Thomas Bird, who released the prisoners in Lincoln Castle Tho Money Edmund Muncton Will Bates Arthur Lee Rich.
Picked out in brick upon this wall, which is over a yard thick, is the date 1833, and it is the boundary wall of the ancient prisons underneath the Shire Hall.
This, the only important stream in Arnold, takes its rise in the North Howbeck fields, and drains the whole of the spring and rainwater from the southern watershed of the parish.
The grand hall has a lofty arched roof supported on marble columns, and contains some fine sculpture.
This, combined with an excellent drainage system and an abundant supply of pure water, has helped to give Nottingham a high place for health among the great towns of England.
Back yards may be made healthy, and adorned with shrubs, flowers and creeping plants on the walls, flower pots and bulbs in the windows, and trees in the open places.
The long narrow strips of land occupied by West Terrace and Vine Terrace, Wollaton Street, and those bordering on West Street, High Street, and Portland Road must have been set out by Saxons and Normans.
Samuel Redgate, of Arnold, fast bowler, was considered the best bowler in England.
Other features of the market square included an elegant Doric pillar and pedestal, surmounted by five gas lamps, a water pump that drew water from a deep artesian well, and the Broad Stone.
Ordsall Parish Hall was built in 1922, and the Churchyard extended a second time in 1922.
They pumped water from springs underneath Zion Hill and Holden Street from a well sixty yards deep to a reservoir on the top of their engine house from which they distributed it to the barracks, Radford and Park Side.
Leland refers to it as 'a little poor street at the end of this wood,' and, in the more remote times of Henry VI.
The east window at Hawton (c.
These were men of the highest weight in his kingdom: The Earl of Argyll, who was at this time Chancellor of Scotland; William Elphinstone, Bishop of Aberdeen; Lords Lisle and' Oliphant; John Drummond, of Stobhall; and the King's own Secretary, Archibald Whitelaw, Archdeacon of Lothian.
The Albert Hall in Derby Road, although intended primarily for the services of the Wesleyan Mission, has become the home of high-class music in the city.
Only one house is shown here at the corner of Wright Wilson Street, occupied by William Smith.
The Borough is bounded on the east and north-east by the hamlets of Moorgate and Spittal Hill; on the west by West Retford; on the south by the parish of Ordsall; and on the south-east by the hamlet of Little Gringley.
As cloth-making was introduced in this country by Flemish weavers when William the Conqueror ruled, it is possible the fuller's mill, situate off Station Street, was being worked a.t this period, its water-wheel being turned by the waters of the Town Brook.
memorial formerly in St. Mary's Church, Nottingham, to 'William Flamstead, gent.
His tomb may be seen in the General Cemetery, adjoining to Talbot Street wall.
Possibly the best glass in the Church is some by Burlinson & Grills, which fills the single-light window in the north wall of the chantry.
Outside the pale of the pleasure grounds are the workshops, wood-yard, and gas works, which are ever busy, and they are large enough to do the work of a small town.
Leaving the parish church by the principal entrance gates, we enter Cannon Square, which is near to the Market-place.
Hollow-stone came into use at a very much later period, and in its early days was far steeper than it is now.
Kennels near Serlby Hall, shortly to be removed to Barnby Moor on the Great North Road, three miles from Retford.
The picture shows us what is probably the most spectacular relic of this wonderful establishment, representing the remains of a Norman column left derelict in a garden in Old Church-street.
The other pentise led from the door of the living room along the division wall of the garden to the outer wall, where a small doorway gave access to a garde-robe built of wood over an open stream which ran round the outer wall of the monastery past the ends of all the gardens.
When the trippers arrived at Colwick Park, they were entertained by pierrots on the lawn, a menagerie, high divers, rare Australian black swans on the lake, and three fine public bars and a restaurant.
John Mason and George Popplewell First sheep market held in this Borough, 29th September.
Tombs in Ratcliffe-on-Soar church
At Tenter Hill three acres of arable land, abutting on Seggey ficke south, on the Croft ends north, on the west of Thomas Butler (A), on the east on Richard Clarkeston.
Edmund Mason, whose father lived at Egmanton Hall, was Rector of Ordsall 1614-1631.
PETER'S GATE, 1870, looking eastward, with the fine old oak framed house, at the north-east corner of St. Peter's Church Yard.
It lies on the slope of a sandy rock at the south-west extremity of the Forest of Sherwood and covers an area of 17 square miles.
It was at a meeting at Thurland Hall, on March 4th, 1816, that the Bromley House Library scheme was floated, under the presidency of Mr. John Wright, of Lenton Hall.
Brury meant heath-land, from the French bruyre and is found in such place-names as Temple Brewer on the Lincolnshire Heath; Bruera, alias Churton Heath in Cheshire, and of course is well known as the "root" from which we derive the so-called "briar" pipes.
Deering in his history, p. 10, tells us that 'at the upper end of the High-pavement, almost over against Mary-gate, is the King's Hall, or the County or Shire Hall.
These are the kettle-drums which beat the charge of the Duke of Kingston's Light Horse at the battle of Culloden, when 'Bonny Prince Charlie' was defeated in 1746.
In this work the distribution of British plants is traced through the different counties of Britain.
The building consists of a centre and two wings, with a small grass plat in front, and preserved from the road by a low wall and iron palisades.
North Field was sometimes called Far Field on the boundary of the Parish by Little Gringley.
Bailey was accompanied to Hucknall by Samuel Kirke Swann.
In the summer time there was dancing on the various greens, swings and amusements for the children as well as for the older folk, and teas were served in the "round house," an octagonal building with pagoda-like roof supported on columns.
This meeting at Rufford was attended by Sir Thomas Parkyns, Bart.
At one time the area it covers seems to have been divided between the kingdoms of Mercia and Lindsey.
The next village to Bilsthorpe standing in this pleasant part of Nottinghamshire is Eakring, spelt in Doomsday Book  'Echering.
A window representing S. Luke and placed over the north door in the chancel.
The amount of land under cultivation appears to have been much larger than it was in 1683, when Sir Edward Golding owned more than 1400 acres of grass land and also larger than it is at the present day; but in 1842 it paid to grow corn.
The Early English tower was taken down, together with the last bay of the nave, and the present tower was erected out of the old materials, at the end of the nave thus shortened.
To-day the sites of some of these old mills are plainly to be seen, and the names that survive are the Weir Mill, Castle Mill, Warp Mill, Middle Mill, and Forge Mill.
Four years later that priory was dissolved by attainder and Prior Heath came to the gallows under circumstances akin to pose which marked the death of Prior Lawrence of Beauvale.
In the grounds are many fine trees, and a lake of very clear water, about thirteen acres in extent.
In the possession of the Rector of Clayworth is a seventeenth-century diary, containing a list of the Rectors from 1266 downwards, many of whom were Deans of Lincoln at the same time.
In the chancel is a fine monument to William Willoughby and Anne, his wife.
Through this ground the brook ran, giving the name of Hillbrook House to what is now known as Brookhill Hall.
Five corbels and a weather-mould are still to be seen in the church wall, indicating the pentise roof, the slope of which is shown by a chase in the return wall at the west.
He also made the series of flood meadows on the rivers Meden and Mann, those on the latter stream extending from near Mansfield to Ollerton.
Wherever a river ran through low land the country was flooded from time to time.
Is situated at the top of Park-street, near the Lodge Gates.
Up till that time as we have seen the shambles and other buildings extended westward into the market to about where the entrance to the old Exchange Hall stood until 1926.
CHARLES TYLDEN ONLEY WRIGHT was Managing Director of the Shireoaks Colliery Company, near Worksop, and part owner of the Steetley Lime Quarries, Worksop.
high and steep on its western side, precipitous on the southern side, easy or undulating on its eastern side, and level on its northern line.
Thoroton states that it had early come to the honor of Leicester, and was held by the St. Andrews', Lords of Gotham.
The Carr was down by the river, Hall Parks was part of Grove, and Clay Close must have been on that side of the Parish, while Dunham Gate was the old name of the new Grove Road.
The Victoria Station is a fine building, with lofty clock tower, fronting Mansfield Road, almost opposite Shakespeare Street.
But Tuxford continues to be the family burial place, in the mortuary chapel containing the alabaster tomb.
There are National Schools at Old and New Basford, and Cinder Hill, with accommodation for 1860 children, and there are Council Schools at Old Basford (Percy Street, Southwark Street and Scotland Place) and at New Basford (Radford Road) having accommodation for 2418 children.
The parsonage was built near the church (West and South-street corner), with ground attached, and near by were the dwellings of the poor people of the village.
The main highway at this time was called the Great North Road because it passed through so many towns and villages.
It will be noticed that of thirteen religious houses only Broadholme Priory stood east of the Trent, and only Shelford Priory south of that river-and Shelford was nearly on the south bank.
The same is true of the curtain wall commenced in 1178 round the keep of Dover and the fine castle of Framlingham, entirely rebuilt in 1189, shows a fine series of similar wall-towers.
The western room (the guest house) has a three-light square-headed window in the outer wall, and a small loop in the inner wall.
first Duke of Norfolk (Howard) and was killed at Bosworth Field, fighting for Richard III.
One of the best known of the old Roman highways- the Fosse Road- runs through the town, leading from the important cities of York and Lincoln to Leicester, Bath, and the midland and western parts of the country generally; while another ancient road, known as Sewstern Lane, leaving Ermine Street near Casterton, came direct to Newark, via Woolsthorpe-by-Belvoir and Long Bennington.
The entrance to the large hall is in Milton-street.
The Free Public Natural History Museum is located in the west wing of the College buildings, and comprises a vertebrate museum on the ground floor, and an invertebrate one on the first floor.
It was the building in which assizes, the quarter sessions and the county court were held; here, by the suffrages of the freeholders, the knights of the shire were chosen to serve the county in parliament.
Near Cur Lane, etc. Cheapside (see Rotten Row) Cokstolrowe, 1332; Cuckstool Row, 1799 Poultry, 1800 Cokwatergang, 1395 Encroachment near Corvezar Bowthes, 1435; Shomaker Bothes, 1486; Shoe Booths, 18th century Exchange Alley, about 1810 Coulane, Koulane, 1298 Clumber Street, 1812 (widened) Coulanebarre, 1395 North opening in town wall Dabtunlane, 1434 'Croft abutting upon ' Darbyeyate, 1623-4 (man robbed) Derby Road Derbigate, 1301 Tollhouse Hill, about 1760 Kennel Hill, 1800, n.
This now the site of the Station Master's House.
By the side of the door there was a square opening or hatch in the cloister wall, running back about 2ft.
Napoleon had escaped from Elba, and all Europe was gathered to crush him once more.
Between the King's Meadow and Wilford Meadow, it is probable, the boundary was a great dyke.
A pleasant drive of about two miles brought the party to Willoughby-on-the-Wolds, a village situated close to the county boundary, and within a mile of the Fosse Road.
Arnold in 1086 would probably consist of the rude timber-built hall, with a small tower erected for defensive purposes, a chapel on the south side and a kitchen on the north.
About 1480 Edward Grey, Lord Lisle, came to Nottingham with an armed force and threatened Sir Henry, but afterwards they arranged this marriage to heal the breach.
The Park and its mansion, Wollaton Hall, covering 744 acres, were purchased by the Corporation from Lord Middleton in 1924.
Oscroft (who hit a ball over the big elm called 'George Parr's tree,' 135 yards), Selby, Sherwin, Flowers, Barnes, Grundy.
Table-Tomb formerly against East Wall of North Transept.
Julian's mother was a sister of Nicholas Poutrell, serjeant-at-law,1 whose monumental slab is in the chancel at Egmanton Church.
Priors of Lewes continued until 1473 at least, to receive appointment as vicars-general, but the abbot of Cluny after 1459 took little interest in the English provinces.
May those fair banks and spacious meadows bloom In spring perennial, thro' which thy waves Meander-spreading plenty as they flow.
Bromley & Co. There are now Soap Works, Basket and Wicker Works, Bone, Glue and Manure Works, and adjoining Bulwell Forest Great Northern Station, Railway Wagon Works.
The first church Sunday School was formed about 1830, by George Walker, shoemaker, and John Webster, lace dresser, in a room at the back of 'The Wrestlers' public house.
It is interesting to note in passing that the piazza of this house is the only place on the Row where columns with high bases remain, but whereas all the original ones were said to be oak posts set up on square stone bases to avoid contact with the damp ground, these are yellow Mansfield stone throughout.
In place of the central lancet a large three-light Perpendicular window has been inserted, the cill being brought down to a lower level to give more light.
They erected a new engine house in Brewhouse Yard, the site at present occupied by the Corporation Water Department, and pumped this new supply of water up to their old reservoir underneath the present hospital.
The eastern ditch, is the valley and stream of the Beck, which, down to living memory, was flanked, on the Sneinton side, by a sandcliff, in Manver's Street, a north wing of the Hermitage cliff.
The Chesterfield Chapel at Shelford contains several floor-stones and mural monuments to this distinguished family.
Bamkin's house, near the foot of Woodstock Street, stands on land which formerly belonged to the Chaworths of Annesley.
Two miles north-northeast we reach Headon-cum-Upton, passing through the hamlet of Upton before reaching Headon and the church, Headon Hall was a mansion situated in Headon park, west of the village.
Cartwright bought 10 acres of land on Spital Hill near the Chesterfield Canal in April 1788 with the intention of building a steam-powered wool spinning and weaving mill.
The works to the accessory buildings, and the beautiful gardens, grounds, and lake, were continued by Lord Belper, as well as by the present Lord Belper, who succeeded to the title and estate in 1880.
This rock terminates southwards in cliff faces, representing the north limit of the Trent valley.
Sixteen oxgangs of land, held in demesne (equal to 'house farm') each containing nine acres, were worth yearly 5/-each oxgang.
Shortly afterwards, we reach the pleasant village of Radcliffe-on-Trent, much frequented by Nottingham holiday folk on account of the pleasant walks by the river.
He was known as 'His Honour Vane,' and in 1768 he sold Ranby Forest, containing some 1,400 acres, in Babworth parish, to William Mellish, of Blyth Hall.
This was the narrow lane (called Whinney Moor Lane) leading from the Great North Road to Thrumpton.
At the entrance to the stone quarries, near the Bulwell Colliery, now closed, is our old village pinfold.
Hazel Street once contained, within living memory, a long row of three-storey houses the top rooms of which were used as frame-shops.
Sir George Savile, of Rufford in the County of Nottingham, Baronet, Marquess of Halifax, gave to the re-building of this Church the sum of Twenty Pounds.
Haslam's Trough Pingle stretched from the present Great Central Station to Torkard Buildings, sometimes called the 'Old Buildings.
Throughout the Middle Ages the London Road wheeled round the foot of the rock at Plumptre Square and ascended the steep narrow passages of Malin Hill, Long Stairs and, at a later period, Hollow Stone and hence reached the top alongside St. Mary's.
It consists of chancel, nave with clerestory, a south aisle with an arcade of three bays, a western square tower containing four bells, and with an entrance porch.
Finally, the whole of the curtain next the gatehouse was cut about and re-modelled, apparently owing to timber structures having been erected outside the walls at this point, doors and fireplaces being made for these in the stone curtain itself.
Brinkburn priory in Northumberland is a case in point, where the processional doorway is in the transept wall, and the eastern doorway in the nave wall was not used in processions.
The Duke's estates in Scotland include Langwell Lodge, which the family has frequently visited for deer-stalking and grouse-shooting in the autumn.
In and by the Leen valley is the Lower Mottled Sandstone, and the Bunter Pebble Beds, with recent river gravel and silt, and ancient river deposits of terrace gravel.
Midway between Carrington Street and Wilford Road is a seven-storied Granary, provided with electric hoists, and a basin connected with the River Trent and Canal.
At Newstead Abbey the west front of the original priory church stands out as a beautiful though ruined example of Early English and Decorated work.
Castle Terrace is very much higher than Mortimer Street and at one or two places the houses in Castle Terrace are actually built upon those in Mortimer Street.
This Robert further increased his estate by acquiring land at Wysall adjoining.
Close by is St. Patrick's Roman Catholic Church, a plain brick and stone building, the altar of which covers a medieval bridge.
Thus ey in Mattersey depicts this place as an island in the midst of a sea of swamps, but holme was the Scandinavian for an island enclosed by a river.
The forest was cleared around the spot now occupied by the Parish Church, and on that gentle eminence overlooking the stream was reared the first 'Hall,' from which the parish derived its fore-name.
DRURY-HILL, leading from Low-pavement to Sussex-street, was called Vault-lane because of the fame of the huge rock cellars underneath the house at its juncture with Low-pavement.
It had a noble courtyard facing Cavendish-square, and an imposing ports cochere, with a large garden and wide-spreading trees, which were such extraordinary features to be found as adjuncts to the old London palaces of the nobility.
A hundred years ago a school at Bog End, in Greasley parish, attracted the youth of the district; the Widdowsons and Shaws, of Hucknall attended this school.
One was the west window, the other was in the south wall of the nave.
The annual camps have been at Trusthorpe, Hunstanton, and Skegness.
This is the Prior's Kitchen, with its octagonal pyramid roof, which will impress the travelled visitor at once with its strong similarity to the famous Abbot's Kitchen of Glastonbury Abbey in Somerset.
He married Frances Callis (net Wood), a grand-daughter of Sir Francis Willoughby; this is known from the Willoughby pedigree in Thoroton.
Finally, they were enlarged, and the present stone front was added to them in 1850, but in 1868 the school was removed from Stoney Street to the new buildings in Arboretum Street, designed by Mr. Simpson, and at the same time the name of the school was changed from the Free School to the High School.
If the supposition as to the position of the river front of Alexander's castle is correct, and also the quite reasonable one that his timber-hall was on this front, it follows that this hall must have somewhat obstructed the entrance.
Major Phillip Stevens, lays information that Sir James Stonehouse, of Amerden Hall, Essex, has in his hands 5,000 due to Lord (John) Byron.
The first houses in South Retford were built near the Borough Boundary, and became Wright Wilson Street.
Font in Egmanton church.
With the start of bus services in the twenties, the rail service started to decline until, in 1970, the Grantham and Lincoln lines were once again joined up at Colwick and both services running into Nottingham Midland Station.
This "Liberty" lies between Blidworth and Mansfield, on the east side of the highway.
Bottle Lane and Chandlers Lane joined and after a few yards debouched upon Bridlesmith Gate about where the County Club now stands.
At the present time the parish church consists, not merely of this widened south aisle, but also of the whole of what remains of the original priory church, and includes nave, with aisles, chancels, south porch, and a west tower of great beauty.
Of Rutland Street there is little to say.
The original parish of Greasley, down to modern times, was, I believe, so far as this county is concerned, second only to the parish of Worksop in point of superficial magnitude.
The graveyard of the ancient parish-church of Kinoulton may still be seen high up on the wolds; the old chapel or Newbold was used as the parish-church until the present building was erected in 1780.
Hotels and posting-houses, The Swan, Bridge Street; Midland, near the station.
At the top of Gallows Hill are the great caves on both sides, called Robin Hood caves, and we enter the wild forest.
Two miles south of Newark, by a pleasant road leading past the Golf Links, the fine tower of Hawton Church is a landmark on the banks of the little river Devon.
In the same park, in the place called there the Hawk's Nest, are trees forty feet long of timber, which will bear two feet square at the top end, or height of forty feet.
Lenton Priory-General view of the excavations from the North.
A row of poplar trees used to run down the side of the garden next to Low Street, and the garden itself was extensive, running up to Parliament Street and to the stables now occupied by Messrs.
Bulwell: from the "bulling" or "bubbling" well which issues from the Bunter Sandstone on the "forest waste" to join the waters of Leen.
Henry Holton, a Congregational minister, preached at the parish church.
Upon one occasion for example Turpin was hard pressed and wounded and took refuge in a secret place near Arnold.
I) The Patent Rolls say Greys held Hucknall land ' from the King as of the honour of Peveril.
Although no undisturbed fragment of the town wall is known to remain visible to-day, an interesting reflection of its influence may be observed in the uneven character of the property line on the south side of Upper Parliament Street, between Chapel Bar and Market Street, originally the rear boundary of the corresponding premises fronting to Chapel Bar and Long Row, and approached by a narrow road running along the inside of the defensive wall.
One by Caroline Mary Price, dated 1830, in the Castle collection, shows the main arch of the bridge utilised as a cottage and the western one as a stable.
In 1386 he had the King's protection, as going in his service under the command of John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster, nominal King of Castile and Leon, into Spain.
Towards the end of the century plantations were made, the ancient water-mill was at work and hops were cultivated.
He also says (page 56) ' The first house on the right from the (church) avenue standing immediately on the banks of the river, is the Manor house * * under whose roof Kirke White resided some time.
WINKBURN Hall lies some few miles north-east of Southwell, off the Hockerton-Kirklington road.
According to an account given in the local newspaper, by a person who was living before the railways were put down, states that the Park (now known as Colwick Woods) was separated from the road by a high brick wall, of which only a short stretch is still left at the side of the Midland Railway embankment.
Costock a grand example is now a beautiful ruin, and at Cromwell a tower mill is rapidly becoming the same.
Tuxford is a small market-town possessing a railway station on the Great Northern main line between Newark and Retford, and an excellent grammar school founded by Charles Read.
The kitchens and cellars are notable-the beer-cellars wonderful works of tunnelled rock and brick building for long distances beneath the house and terrace: a siege could have been stood out in ales!
It was this warrior who in 1509 enclosed 200 acres of his pastures and 40 acres of arable land to form a lordly park.
The area of the estate was:- Abbey and Park 587.272 acres Farms 12,259.878 ' Woodlands 2,339.623 ' Forest Land leased to Forestry Commission 2,191.555 ' Various other lands 1,351.095 ' TOTAL .
Tram Lines in the Neighbourhood: At Chesterfield, Mansfield, Nottingham, Rotherham, and Doncaster.
Broad Marsh is so called in contradistinction to Narrow Marsh, for here the land between the river Leen and the foot of the cliff was more extensive than it was further east.
On the northern side of Woolpack Lane is a fine old house, whose garden is now used as a timber yard.
King William allotted a goodly part to himself as soc to his manor of Dunham, with land for 10 ploughs, 25 socmen, 15 villeins, and there was a church with a priest, a mill, much meadow and land already under cultivation.
Derby Road Baptist Church on the south side of the road is rather a striking structure, and contains an excellent four-manual organ.
deep to the glass line, is 3ft.
The administration of the law and the dispensing of justice for the county was carried on in the Shire Hall opposite.
Leaving Skegby our party proceeded by a winding lane, flanked by high hedges and flower-decked banks, as far as Teversal.
Here great tide-gates stand in the arches of a bridge across the Idle.
The Great Central Main Line FROM LONDON to Manchester passes through Nottingham, and has communication with London and the South, with the great Lancashire towns, or with Scotland, via York.
Henry Cross, now pastor of a Baptist Church in America, went forth from this church.
Thomas King was appointed Rector this year, and came to live in the Rectory himself.
Albert-street-which runs into St. Peter's-square, and is a continuation, in almost a straight line, of the Arkwright-street approach of the Trent Bridge-is now reached, with its lofty shops, and the Municipal Offices, formerly the Post Office, erected in 1848.
The northern boundary is a small stream flowing eastwards towards the river Trent, about 3 miles distant.
Fish from Grimsby to the Metropolis is carried by special trains over this route.
The only monument in the chancel is a plain tablet of white marble on the south wall, which is thus inscribed:-
These mounds and banks overlooking the Laxton valley, are the best Romano-British earthworks in the county and it is remarkable how they have escaped observation by previous antiquarians.
The Parish Church of Greasley is dedicated to Saint Mary the Virgin and it is reasonable to suppose that this has been so ever since a church has stood here.
The farms of Rayton and Kilton are bounded on the north by a lane bearing the ominous name of Thievesdale, which here separates the parishes of Worksop and Carlton.
In 1297 a William Cressy was called out for military service in Scotland.
Albert Ball's purchase and transfer to the Corporation of the Bulwell Hall Estate added a further 250 acres of park land for public use.
Interior of the Norman nave, looking east, c.
wide; to allot to the Rectors land equal in value and area to the Glebe and common rights and land equal in value to one seventh of the land liable to tithe and to one tenth of the Gardens, Orchards and other enclosed land liable to tithe; the land so allotted to the Rectors to be fenced at the public cost: the residue to be divided among the persons entitled having regard to value and contiguity to houses and estates.
This region, described by one writer as the crossroads of Europe in the Middle Ages, lay between northern and southern France, and was connected by trade routes with Germany, the Low Countries and Spain.
A huge gargoyle-the only one on the 'body' of the church-projects from the parapet of the south clerestory, between the second and third bays from the crossing.
In the last-named room there are Rembrandt's famous portrait of himself, a portrait by Sir Joshua Reynolds, of one of the first Earls of Portland, who, when plain William Bentinck, came over on his first visit to England as page-of-honour to William, Prince of Orange, afterwards William the Third.
Caves abound in all directions in Nottingham wherever the sandstone rock comes to the surface, and have doubtless served for dwellings at all periods.
This monument is erected to her memory at the request of her only surviving sister Diana Eyre, who died August 17, 1763, aged 71 years, and also lies in this church.
It is even said that grass was growing in the north aisle, which was at one time the keeping place of the parish fire engine.
In 1683 there was a great ice flood which tore away part of the bridge, and the Flood Road (London Road) arches were blown up.
It was once a separate parish, and had at the time of the Conquest a church, and Godwin the priest had land, but in 1559 there was no priest, and the churchwardens reported: 'No service thar thies too yeres.
Occasionally a village, like Lambley, stands mainly on the Keuper clay but gets its water from wells sunk through this into the Waterstones.
It was included in the Ecclesiastical Hundred of Bingham while the parish church of Staunton is in the Hundred of Newark.
The hall stands in a park, 790 acres in extent, which lies partly in the county and partly in the city and county of Nottingham, and is completely encompassed by a brick wall, said to be seven miles in circumference.
His distinguishing letter for that roadway is 'D,' and this is placed close to the eastern side of Cowlane Bar (Clumber Street), which was in use until about 1649, and where the town wall passed down the middle of Back Side (Parliament Street).
Hucknall (2  miles from Bulwell tram terminus), the parish church of which-St.
This Earl of Shrewsbury died July 26th, 1531, at Win-field Manor, and was buried at Sheffield.
Two-Mile Houses on the Alfreton Road, more than three miles from Nottingham, had formerly a large brass and iron foundry, and in 1832 it had a large establishment for singeing lace by gas, belonging to Samuel Hall & Co. The 'Starch House,' a four-storey building, is now the residence of Mrs. Meadows, Nursery Gardens.
The former of these mills is now hidden by the Mill Cafe and Garage near the Wollaton Park Gates on Derby Road, while the latter is behind Mitchell's Garage, off Radford Marsh, this being the Prior's Mill where all the corn of the Parish and Priory was ground.
County Football is played on the same ground, while the Nottingham Forest Football Club utilises an adjoining piece of land.
George Viscount Castleton, of Satidbeck in the County of York, gave a good quantity of stone, by which the inhabitants were able to finish so good a work.
That notice referred to the colliery to be sunk in Harworth, the parish adjoining Scrooby on its western side.
Joan, wife of Geoffrey Staunton, Monument in St. Laurence Isle.
How fond Mr. North was of building cottages on three sides of a square, securing the children a good play ground.
It has a square-sided basin, supported on a dwarf pillar formed with four attached shafts having "water-mould" bases, which give a clear indication of date.
This hall was located on the north side of Gridlesmith Gate, now Pelham Street, and covered an extensive area, including what is now Thurland Street.
Garfield Road is named after the American President, who was basely assassinated in 1881, and Garibaldi Terrace derived its title from the well-known Italian liberator, and Livingstone Street keeps in mind the well-known missionary and discoverer in Central Africa.
There is a very pleasant walk, going west-ward from the market-place, up Derby-road, where, at the top of the hill, are three turnpike-roads.
A small wood stretched from Jenny Burton's Hill to near her cottage; it was on Byron Charity land, and the timber was cut down early in the 13th century and sold for the benefit of the Charity.
The highest ground in the county is situated in the district round the Robin Hood's Hills, just where this range is joined by the watershed between those two rivers.
The main entrance is by a Doric portico, fronting into Burton Street; the general treatment of the second storey is Ionic in style.
Visitors who do not desire to see the Catholic Cathedral and the General Cemetery should pass down Park-row, cross the street at the bottom (Chapel-bar and Derby-road), enter the narrow thoroughfare opposite (Parliament-street), and proceed to the left past the Clarendon Hotel and the Masonic Hall (page 38), and visit the Free Public Natural History Museum (page 36), the University College (page 34), Free Library (page 36), the new Guild Hall (page 38), retrace their steps, pass the School of Art, and follow the Guide, beginning page 27.
The wind-mill on the hill has stopped, 'never to go again since the old man died,' and in the place of the brick pleasure house is a stone lower.
An arcade of four early English arches divides the nave from the aisle, and the chancel arch is of the same period.
There is a little river running through this parke very profitable, not only in regarde of the troute and other fish therein contained, but especially in regard of the water-mill well built of stone standing upon the said river, neare unto the parke and the towne of Worksop.
The Midland Railway passes through Nottingham on its way to Carlisle and Scotland.
On the north bank of the Leen, between Fink-hill-street and Greyfriars'-gate, are
Gawthorp & Sons, of Long Acre, London, and placed in the wall of the south aisle, on a black marble slab, by Messrs.
The Walter Fountain on Lister Gate in 1888.
The principal building is the fine range of schools on Stanley road, at which there are baths in continual use by the children from many other schools.
On each side of the nave, in front of the chancel screen, is a tomb-arch in the wall.
The West part belonged to the Manor of Elkesley, which was held by the King in right of his Duchy of Lancaster.
This wood is a continuation of those of the 'Manor Hills,' and divides the Manor from the Welbeck estates ; at the extremity of this wood is the 'South Lodge.
On the south wall of the chancel there is a fine marble medallion bearing an excellent portrait of Henry Kirke White, the poet, and one of the windows is filled with stained glass  'In Memoriam H. K. W.,' supplied by public subscription.
General Sir Charles James Napier was, in 1840, in command of the troops in the Northern counties, his head-quarters being in Wheeler Gate, Nottingham.
Further down on the south side will be found a little street called Bow Street which was known to our forefathers as Mill Street for in it was erected Hargreaves' mill, the first cotton mill in the world.
The principal part of the parish rests upon a terrace of ancient gravel, and river drift, which in some places is twenty feet in depth.
The Rector lived after his marriage at Holly Mount, next to St. Alban's Church, and continued to reside there all the time he was Rector of Ordsall.
The Parsonage House with a Croft adjoining.
It is stated in Harrod's History of Mansfield that Bilsthorpe Church, a short distance from Rufford, is the burial place of Dr. William Chappell, Bishop of Cork and Ross, in Ireland, He was a native of Mansfield, and received his early education in that town.
The first Methodist place of worship, the Octagon, situated behind Milton Street, near the present site of the Great Central Railway, was erected in 1767, and replaced by Hockley Chapel, 1782.
The parish church of St. Mary and St. Martin (open daily) consisted in monastic times of south aisle only: this narrow Norman aisle was taken down and made nearly three times as wide to enable the brethren of the priory and the parishioners to worship separately under the same roof.
When Stretton visited this church (November 13th, 1815) he found standing at the west end "a low square tower with the remains of a plain Saxon, or early Norman doorway, and leaded roof.
he acquired Tower Place, with twenty-one acres of ground in Hornsey, from John and Joseph Chambers, the sons of Richard Chambers, esq.
The direct road from BRISTOL and the SOUTH-WEST takes us through Gloucester, Worcester, Birmingham, Ashby-de-la-Zouch, and the ancient little town of Castle-Donington.
Lingdale, or Bowling Alley (mere names with the people for the road only) ran through the large Lingdalefeld, or Bowling Alley Field, so named on the official and other old plans.
In 1850 Retford was the principal town of the Hundred of Bassetlaw (An ancient administrative division of the county covering a slightly larger area than Bassetlaw District Council) and was described as "a well-built, populous, improving, and busy market town, pleasantly situated on the River Idle and the Great North Road.
Before the Chaworths' time the monks of Worksop had grant of free passage over this ferry.
He became a great Civil Engineer, and carried out one hundred and fifty schemes for the supply of water to cities and towns, and many gas works.
Next morn at sound of the Angelus bell, the prelate, prior and canons betook themselves to the Chapter House.
Aldam's 2 Spring plantation, at the foot of the bill now known as Spring hill, refers to the spring of water in it.
One week later, the remains arrived from 'Welbeck at Harcourt House, to be entombed in the family vault of the Bentincks, that is to be found in a small building in a dingy street, now a chapel of ease, but in old days the Parish Church among the fields of the pretty village of Marylebone.
The second and third bays, a step lower than the first, are vaulted with chamfered diagonal ribs with broad flat soffits, forming wide segmental curves, and have a width of 9ft.
Adjoining the graveyard on the S.E. is a fine old house, displaying three gables at back and front, a fine stone inglenook and chimney, a good oak roof, oak stairs, etc. This is undoubtedly the ancient manor house.
The Lady Bay Estate from the Council Schools eastward was brought out by Messrs.
The old High-street surrendered to Main-street its time-honoured pre-eminence as an artery, and the new Kimberley has environed the church which was erected in 1847, in which year came the Midland Railway.
The water at Burton was found to be richer in gypsum than was Nottingham water, and consequently Burton beer was more palatable than Nottingham beer, and so Burton gradually rose to be the metropolis of brewing, and Nottingham's trade declined.
This archway is exactly the width of the old stone work in the present chancel arch wall.
From this landing we ascend to the different floors by steps 6 feet 6 inches wide, on alternate sides of the well-hole.
MODEL OF NOTTINGHAM WAR MEMORIAL (on the Trent Embankment).
Passing down the latter slope, visitors will emerge into Mansfield-road (a very broad highway, which is lined with trees-the first tree being planted December 9, 1863).
The infirmary was placed to the east of the chancel of the church, and the granaries, mills, bakehouses, schools were placed more remotely still from the west.
There was a bridge across the Leen about five or six feet wide, and the path was straight up to the church by what is now a steep narrow ascent, with an iron hand-rail from Church Lane.
James' Church, is on Standard Hill, a continuation of Postern Street.
The Pebble Beds are well exposed in Hucknall Road, and Edward's Lane.
The township consisting of three distinct portions (now denominated 'The Town' in the centre; 'Smedley's Buildings' and 'The Woodhouse' on the west; and 'Eastfield' on the east) is situated on both sides of a stream, tributary to the river Man (or Maun), rising not far from a place called Willow-bridge, on the foot road to Fulwood, which flowing directly east, falls into that river at the Cotton-works.
Older boys and girls also attended the private homes, and other ill-adapted buildings, of John Oscroft, Edwin Wass, and James Slater in Duke Street; William Rhodes (Rhodes' Yard); Charles Jennings, Tom Dove (Parliament Street): J. E. Burrows (High Pavement), and others.
The hall has been sold to the Corporation; the High School Trustees have purchased the Recreation ground ; some fine trees are preserved, and the rooks continue It is a pity the belt of trees adjoining to Mansfield Road was not retained.
Huthwaite Online Gary Elliott's fascinating community website has a considerable amount of historical material on this former mining village near Sutton-in-Ashfield.
The next building to this is the 'Mansfield-road Chapel '-although located in Milton-street-of Romanesque style, for a quarter of a century the chapel of the Rev.
The history of man in this county, as far back as we are at present able to read it, begins with those rough quartzite implements in the lower layers.
Adjoining the house was a large corn mill, now pulled down, and he had works at Forge Mill.
There are four fields between that Covert and Meadow Covert, that appear to have been taken out of Edwalton parish.
The large and unique old plan (1800) shows one house only between Plumptree Street and Hollow Stone as being in Stoney Street, but there were no buildings of any kind on the north side of Hollow Stone, and the land above is designated 'Plumbtree Paddock.
Lord Byron's monument in Hucknall church in 2002.
The bases of the two pillars at the corner of Priory Street and Old Church Street are fine specimens of Norman work.
There is one interesting house in Pepper Street situated at its junction with St. Peter's Church Side and at present used as offices.
Pierrepont monuments in the south aisle of Holme Pierrepont church.
The church of St. Peter (key at the vicarage) is mainly Early English, but has a fine Perpendicular tower, 120 ft.
The Hall was also opened as a Public House at the same time (see section on Colwick Hall for more detail)
In the same park (after many hundreds sold and carried away) there is a tree which did yield quarter-cliff bottoms, that were a yard square; and there is one of them to be seen at Worksop at this day (1700,) and some tables made of this said quarter-cliffs likewise.
It was opened in 1852, and its 17 acres of undulating ground include an ornamental lake with swans and other water fowl, extensive aviaries of rare and beautiful birds, and many tastefully arranged flower beds.
Leaving the Cemetery, by the upper walk, on the right, visitors will pass through a somewhat narrow outlet, bounded on the left by the simple and unostentatious Burial Ground of the Quakers, to Clarendon-street, opposite the Midland Institution for the Blind.
A broad gravel terrace runs parallel with the house, and terminates at a small group of Scotch firs, which is immediately approached by a flight of grass steps.
Straight before us lies the road, white and glistening, for a couple of miles, up hill and down, by hedges and bushes, through smiling cornfields to the shady woods in the distance.
Catherine's stands in a busy part of older industrial Nottingham at the city end of St. Ann's Well Road.
In 1512, Thomas Urwick and Thomas Brown in a recovery claimed the manor here against Robert Slory, With its appurtenances, and 6 messuages, 10 cottages, 60 acres land, 50 acres meadow, 50 acres pasture, 40 acres wood, 60 acres marsh, 40 acres heath, and  10 rent in Colwick Nower, Over Colwick and Nether Colwick.
The kitchen garden, which is near the new stables, contains about ten acres walled and six acres of orchard ground outside the walls.
The soil presented pleasing varieties, ranging from light sand to strong clay, with intermediate stages' of pliable mould, adapted to the growth of oaks and other timber; of fruit trees; of wheat and barley, vegetables and flowers; of grass pastures by running streams, and other provisions for man and beast, while the birds sheltered and sang in its woods and valleys.
The first street we come to on the southern side is Pemberton Street which is largely composed of houses built in 1848 by the Plum tree Trust.
On a marble tomb over a brick vault, on one side :-
The portion of the north aisle between the pillars of the first bay has evidently been a chantry chapel, and is believed to have been connected with Woodcotes, a hamlet to Fledborough.
The locality of the Priory is perpetuated in the names of several streets,-Abbey Street, Priory Street, etc. Derbigate, so named in 1301, continues its usefulness as the most beautiful road leading out of Nottingham.
At Worksop there is good railway communication with Retford, Sheffield, Mansfield, and Nottingham.
Visitors, however, who prefer the broader and most direct way to the Station, should proceed down the Low-pavement, previously noticed, to Lister-gate-two turns to the left-follow the tram lines, which, keeping to the left-hand, lead to the Stations.
Under an Act of Parliament passed in 1771 'for dividing and enclosing the open fields, meadows, commons, and common pastures, within the liberties of Stapleford and Bramcote,' there was allotted to
On passing Cossall Marsh, the Great Northern Canal runs over an aqueduct, the only one to be seen in this neighbourhood.
Road, Bridge, and Ferry Tolls: At Selby (West Riding, Yorks.
The Leeds coaches were 'The Rockingham' and 'The Union,' running in fierce competition.
Ralph de Freschville granted land to Bradmore with common pasture and the right to dig peat on land at Bunny.
His son John, the second Earl, was born at Haughton, and the mansion continued the residence of the family until the time of the fourth Earl, John, who was born in 1663.
The water tower which serves as a support for the bridge connecting this hospital with the General Hospital was erected by the Corporation.
de Bevercotes, who as Chancellor for Scotland was commanded by Edward I to lead troops to Berwick for his Scottish campaign.
Prior to Mr. Hobson going to his present home, the building was the rendezvous of the Sutton Conservative Club, which organisation also used a villa at one time in Forest Street.
In the hamlet of Ranby, two miles north, a square stone was set up in 1802, to commemorate the finding of sixty-two copper and twenty-nine silver Roman coins.
The pillar is octagonal, and the capital is well carved with vine leaf foliage, as is also the corbel which supports the arch on the north.
It formed the boundary of Nottingham meadows and Wilford, leaving Daft's Wey House out of the forest, including Cremorne Gardens.
Turney's Works, near the north-east of Trent Bridge, proceeding eastwardly, crossing the Trent lower down in order to enclose the 'Hook,' re-crossing at the west end of the Colwick trees, and mounting the hill to the tops of Colwick Wood, Sneinton Dale, Carlton Hill and Thorneywood Lane, to near the Asylum grounds, descending to St. Ann's Well railway bridge, again ascending by the top of the Corporation gardens, and passing Bartholomew Stile, down Gordon Road to Southwell Road, thence turning southerly by the Beck, now in a culvert a short distance west of Manvers Street, excluding St. Philip's Church, and so we return across the Railways, and by the old course of the Leen to the Trent.
who, at the same time came to the estate at Grove, by marrying Barbara, the fifth sister; afterwards the living came to Thomas Cornwallis, Esq.
The greater portion of the coal used for domestic and trade purposes can be carted direct from the pit head, thus dispensing with rail and water transport.
A peculiarity of this church is that it is not truly orientated-the angles and not the faces of the square Norman tower face the cardinal points.
Water lilies and other water plants flourish in the quieter pools.
The building in the middle at the top of the photograph is a three-storey tower house, probably the Prior's lodging; the surviving church walls are on the right.
An indenture between Edward IV and Thomas the Prior was found on the wall of the Rock Caverns in Nottingham, respecting the transfer of the Chapel of S. Mary.
Above this is seven yards of gravel, sand, silt, peat, &c, which has been washed down, and in which bog timber has been found.
In King's Place, upon the western side of Stoney Street, was situated, until about 1827, the Catholic Chapel.
These latter bars were removed in 1870, Ilkeston Road bar in 1874, and Alfreton Road bar in 1877, and the cost of repair thrown on to the county rates.
The ground is now occupied by the Midland Railway, the Lawn Tennis Club, and for garden purposes.
It has a mission hall in Meadow lane, in which locality the work was commenced by Canon Button.
The Bradmore tenants carted lime, timber and bricks to Thurland Hall, Nottingham, for their landlord, Sir Francis Willoughby.
We soon pass the last lodge on the Clumber Estate, cross the road separating the two estates, and find ourselves in Thoresby Park.
A small cottage in this same village of Holme is said to have been frequented by Dick Turpin, the outlaw, who procured food and cordial for his horse to sustain the animal during the famous journey from London to York.
The piscina in the south wall has a lancet head with simple moulding, with a projecting bowl, but oniy a shallow square hollow without a drain.
View down Hall Lane, Brinsley.
The church was situated north of the cloister, with its south wall adjoining the north walk, and the west wall of its south transept overlapping the north part of the east walk.
Built of good stone, laid with geometric precision, Kingston Hall will last for ages, and will be a conspicuous object in this admirable bit of border landscape, long after its present lord has passed away.
To the south of the gateway there is a large cow-byre and barn, having a fine oak roof of five bays.
The Act for dividing, allotting and inclosing the Open Fields, Meadows, Pastures, Commons and Waste Lands within the Parish of Snenton was passed in 36, George III.
Stuffynwood, the residence of Mr. Joseph Paget, although only four miles away from Mansfield is not in this county.
It will surprise some people to be told how large a portion of Nottingham Meadows was in the original parish, and now forms the new parish named.
Amongst other monastic houses holding lands at Oxton was Worksop priory.
Here are sunken streets, rectangular huts or houses, round foundations-perhaps dovecotes, all well preserved and clear to the eye.
The River Idle Drainage Commission is an aid to the low-lying part of the parish in which some works qperate for carrying off water from the water-logged area.
But the chief object of interest is the long row of two-storied houses with dormers which forms the eastern side of this backwater for this is all that remains of the great Carmelite or White Friars' House of Nottingham.
If stones could speak plain English, leaving nothing to inference or conjecture, this quiet village of Tickhill now remote from modern lines of traffic, could tell us a long and interesting story.
From the Market Place a route runs south to Trent Bridge by way of Albert Street, Lister Gate, Carrington Street and Arkwright Street, passing the L.M. & S. Railway Station.
and opposite to his dwelling-house.
Proceeding by the plantation on the northern side of the Park, and through the Fishponds towards the Forge Mill, which is out, as is the Railway gatehouse, but a tongue of land between the two Railways is in, and so we return to the Bestwood Deer-leap.
They established themselves on the top of the tower of St. Nicholas' Church and proceeded to bomb the castle from short range.
By this time the "keep" would be a large square stone tower of at least three storeys in height-a living room or hall on the ground-floor, with solar above, and dungeons and store rooms beneath (a good example-another of William Peveril's strongholds -may be seen in the remains of Peak Castle, at Castleton).
The Soar, which is the western boundary of the parish, was by an Act of Parliament, passed in 1776, made navigable from the Trent to Loughborough, where the canal systems join it.
This was at Dover, where Theobald, archbishop of Canterbury, introduced monks in place of the college originally established in Dover castle and afterwards in St. Martin's, the chief parish church of the town.
In describing the relic, Piercy says:-'Another stone, of exactly the same form and dimensions, is to be observed in the churchyard wall at West Retford, which formerly occupied a place on an elevated piece of ground near the road leading to Barnby Moor, in West Retford Field.
The Priory of Holy Trinity, Lenton, on the western outskirts of Nottingham was the only Cluniac House in this county, and from time to time the townsfolk would see the monks when in town on monastery business.
in, having a small hooded fireplace in the south wall, and lighted by a range of three two-light square-headed windows, overlooking the great cloister.
This narrow street, as well as St. Mary's Gate, which runs parallel with it, is composed of warehouses from end to end, many being handsome buildings, notably that occupied by Messrs.
Although rather out of our ground, it is interesting to note that the first experimental sinkings after coal in this neighbourhood were made just at the foot of Wilford Hill and the spot is marked by a small coppice to-day.
The choir, or Priory church, probably of six bays, had an eastern apse, and north and south aisles, not carried round the apsidal end of the choir, but terminating in flat walls.
It crosses the Midland Railway by the bridge over the station and is continued through Parkinson Street over the canal, Trent Street, Sussex Street and then divides into Garner's Hill and Middle Hill, ancient trackways which led respectively to the east and west end of the original market place of Nottingham.
I further found that parallel street lines were traceable in a fourth or eastern line of Count Street within and Sneinton Street without; Carter Gate within and Water Lane without-the south cliff, overlooking Fisher Gate, being there joined to the eastern boundary, and thus completing a great rectangular enclosure.
On the left-hand side, a little distance beyond, at the rise of the incline to the railway bridge, is Queen's-walk, a rate-maintained public tree-lined walk, three-quarters of a mile in length, the end of which is close to Wilford Bridge, to which reference has already been made.
In the olden time the only work in Arnold other than on the land was stocking making-a little lace making was introduced by the Frosts.
In front of the east side of the house, its fan leaves almost brushing the walls and windows, is a mighty horse chestnut, whose branches sweep to the ground in graceful curves and tower up aloft to a proud elevation.
A.D. 1320-Parish Church enlarged about this period; Thomas Torcard, Vicar.
This road, after passing by, or through, the ancient enclosure of Nottingham, proceeded by Pepper Street, Houndsgate, Lenton Road and Cut Through Lane to the west.
Banbury Castle was surrounded by a large outer bailey.
Long, long ago, long before the Romans ever came to Britain, Nottingham was a primitive settlement fortified upon the top of a cliff round about where St. Mary's Church is now situated.
Some of the marks on the masonry of this tower are to be found in the abbeys, the castles, cathedrals, and churches of our country and the continent.
Three-shire-bush, a well-known rendezvous about a mile away, stands in the counties of Nottingham, Leicester and Lincoln.
This priory for Carthusian monks was erected in a lovely valley about ten miles north-west of Nottingham in the parish of Greasley.
Two old churches, St. Mary-le-Wigford and St. Peter-at-Gowts, have Saxon towers, and near the latter church are the so-called John of Gaunt's Stables, part of the building being Norman.
X) The ancient road from Nottingham to Mansfield ran by the side of Bulwell Forest and Bestwood Park, through.
In 1848 an organ chamber was built to accommodate an organ bought from the Roman Catholic church in George Street, and the present gabled roof was set up over the nave.
high, but is CROSS more accurately described as square, with rounded faces tapering to a square at the top, from which the cross head probably sprang.
As well as describing the castle, the splendid parish church and the marketplace, the book also includes the delightful neighbouring village churches of Holme and Hawton.
As I walk along the broad, leaf-covered, gravel drive that leads to the house a pair of pheasants, which have come to look for something better than ' hedge-fruit,' utter their harsh, startling note, and hide themselves in the thick shrubs which skirt either side of the walk.
The woods surrounding this delightful little spot are very beautiful, particularly the fine beech wood, which has been not inappropriately named the 'Druid's Temple.
The charter directed that all archbishops, bishops, abbots, priors, earls, barons, knights, and free-tenants having woods in forests, should have them as they enjoyed them at the first coronation of Henry II.
A public-house at the bottom of Malin Hill, now named the 'Town Arms,' was formerly known as the 'Ragged Staff.
At Bramcote there is a high pinnacle of rock, known as the Hemlock Stone; at Blidworth there are similar pinnacles, commonly called  'Druidical remains'.
The Nottingham Canal cuts through a small portion of the parish.
Prior to the construction of the Town Midland Railway Station in 1893, the land at the rear of the Hardwick Street Council Schools was utilised as a recreation ground for the district of Hardwick Street, there being a footpath at the side leading from Hardwick Street into Forest Street.
A little bit farther westward stands a large house, next door to the Shire Hall, now occupied by certain departments of the County Council.
He became Canon of Windsor in 1522, Dean of Hereford 1529, was buried in Hereford Cathedral 1541.
There are long lengths of standard rose trees, which, in the summer time, furnish lines of colour and fill the air with a delicious perfume there are vast ranges of glass, where delicious fruits are forced- nectarines and grapes, in unheard of quantities.
The following letter from Sir Christopher Wren, which is still preserved at Welbeck Abbey, shews that some of the timber used in building St. Paul's Cathedral was obtained from this park:
On London Road at the corner of Wright Wilson Street).
LONDON, Printed for J. DOWNING, in Bartholomew Close; and R. GOSLING at the Middle-Temple Gate, in Fleet Street MDCCXXVII.
In 1912 another farm of 85 acres, situated in Sutton Bonington parish, but near to the Kegworth Station, was acquired.
Laird, writing early in last century, states that by this time the Hall appears to have been reduced in area, and 'to contain only two-thirds of the original plan, consisting only of a centre and one wing.
Works of charity are encouraged, in winter cast-off clothing being sent into poor districts in the city and county.
In the Electrical Installation Branch, covering lighting and power for all purposes, they have carried out complete equipments throughout the British Isles and on the Continent for Dock Yards, Public Institutions, Collieries, Steel and Engineering Works, Textile Factories and Mills, Blocks of Flats, Theatres, Cinemas, Country and Town Houses, and Factories, Works, Offices for hundreds of different trades, and have specialist engineers for each particular industry.
Next door, round the corner, and in Shakespeare-street, is the Christadelphian Hall, a brick erection of unusual style, used as a place of religious meeting by the Christadelphians.
This shield of arms in the window is surrounded by coloured glass representing fruit, flowers, etc.; it has evidently been broken at some time.
of Norwell Park, near Southwell, who was one of the first Governors of the School at Bulwell, was a native of Arnold.
William went to the Court of William Rufus, died young, and was buried before the western door of Lincoln Minster.
It may chance, also, that a game of County Cricket or Football is in progress on the famous Trent Bridge ground, but this must be looked for just before the river is crossed.
The boundaries of the Forest came down, according to the course of the Leen, to Lenton, and from thence as the same water was wont of old time to run into the waters of Trent.
Next to this marble tomb is a grey granite cross, at the head of another brick vault, where lie buried two dear young children, who both lost their lives by accidents, i.e.
The Eyres had a moated residence, the site of which may still be seen near the river Ryton, to the south-east of, and on lower ground than, the modern farm house, the moated enclosure being now used as an orchard.
This will take us a beautiful drive or walk past Holme Pierrepont Hall and Church, through Earl Manvers' park.
They are now converted into a couple of cottages, the dormer windows peep out of their low roofs, and lilies, marigolds, and wall-flowers bloom within the two-yard-wide gardens in front of them; and apricots ripen on the old grey walls.
William de Lovetot was the founder of the Monastery of Worksop, and probably of the Parish Church, at Sheffield.
Formerly, the parish business was conducted by the Vestry, the meetings being held in the ancient Parish Church at the West-end corner of the South Aisle.
He became Canon of Southwell in 1753, and was for a time Rector of Beelsby, Lincolnshire.
On the Highway Board taking up its headquarters at the old Parochial Offices in the Market Place, attached to now what is the Union of London and Smiths' Bank, Ltd., the Library transferred its rendezvous to those offices, where they bad two upper rooms at their command.
Visitors should proceed up Heathcote-street the second street to the right from these two stations, and pass the People's Hall, with its reading room and small library, and enter Goose-gate.
Vernon Park is a beautiful recreation ground of 181/4 acres, with its lake and islands, shrubberies, cricket, football and bowling grounds.
The highest ground south of the Trent is formed by a northerly spur of the Belvoir Escarpment.
In the side street is The Cobden Club, a popular Liberal Club.
There is mention made also of a kilnhouse, granary, and brewhouse, situated near the mill in Priory Foulds, between the other priory lands on the east, and Pond Yards on the west.
A beautiful marble tomb, enriched with gilt bronze statuettes surmounted by a gilt bronze effigy of the queen, a replica of the one in King Edward the Confessor's Chapel, Westminster Abbey, a fine work by Master William Torelli, goldsmith, of London, was erected in Lincoln Cathedral.
The Great Northern time-table for August, 1852, advertised the commencement of a service from London to Nottingham, via Grantham, which was only possible by running on the Midland lines from Colwick Station and using the Ambergate Railway carriage and engines.
Here it usually lies upon a coarse gravel, which was deposited before the river had dwindled to its present size.
Bricks went up from 30/- to  3 per thousand, and building land in Basford parish, as well as in other places round Nottingham, rose rapidly.
Gradually it was found safer to take the more devious roads that passed from village to village, and so the great trunk roads became more and more lonely.
West window in steeple, St Peter's church, Nottingham
The extreme length of the structure, measured from the north abutment to the London Road, was about 668 feet.
of that town, who wrote a work on the stratification of the earth; another is of a Dean of the Irish Church, who was at one time rector of Pleasley, in this neighbourhood, and was connected with the Chambers family.
Four hundred and thirty years after the founding of this great priory Nicholas Heath, the last prior, and one monk, were found guilty of high treason and executed in Nottingham or in front of the priory in 1538.
This sum was made up of house (built at South and West street corner, of stone, and thatched), six acres of land, tithes of milk, sucking calves, horses, lambs, wool, hens, pigs, flax, hemp, and the fulling mill.
In Potter-street is the WESLEYAN FREE CHURCH CHAPEL; in Westgate the CONGREGATIONAL; and in Newgate-street the PRIMITIVE METHODIST CHAPEL.
Northern Railway, which here joins the Pinxton Branch and passes over a lofty viaduct 580 yards long, and brickmaking had become a local industry.
Beyond, in the same direction, are the woods of Rufford Abbey, and in the east the spire of Edwinstowe Church rises gracefully from among the old oaks.
Joseph Phipps was a schoolmaster for many years, occupying Chestnut House as an academy.
Lenton to Radford (Marsh Road or Radford Marsh); this has ceased to be a thoroughfare.
During the last quarter of the eighteenth century the cotton industry flourished in the neighbourhood of Nottingham, and in 1785 James Watt set up in the Castle Mill, Linby, the first engine built by him for a cotton mill.
Elizabeth) purchased Egmanton Hall and gave it to his cousin, Thomas Markham, of Ollerton.
Anthony Higginbottom was born at Glossop in 1842, proceeded through Homerton College, and on the opening of the British School at Arnold, became its first master.
Castlegate was by then becoming one of the fashionable residential streets of Nottingham, with an aristocratic opulence that is still conveyed by the fine town houses-Newdigate House and No.
To the north-west lies upland England, with regions rich in mineral wealth and thickly peopled with an industrial population.
In the Domesday entry relating to Linby, a mill is mentioned, since whether a royal mill or the normal demesne mill it would rank as a taxable asset.
William's daughter, Isabella, married John de Orreby, who, with Thurstan Dis-pensator, held, under the Countess of Eu, one third part and a twelfth part of a knight's fee in Bilby, the Countess herself holding direct from the Crown.
Ralph de Freschville granted land to Bradmore with common pasture and the right to dig peat on land at Bunny.
The bridge over this river, was built in the year 1683, the former one, erected by King Edward the elder, having been destroyed by ice.
About 200 years afterwards this manor was divided up and parts of it were held by Sir John Byron, Lancelot Curtis and John Palmer.
We have mention made of the West Bar or Chapel Bar, of the North Bar at the top of Clumber Street, of the Swine Bar at the bottom of Heathcote Street, and the Postern at the top of Park Row.
In 1503 Queen Margaret Tudor passed this spot in her bridal procession.
Three old walnut trees growing in the church-yard are specially noticeable, Many trees have been, during the past two generations, planted, and in the hall grounds are some fine specimens of trees mechanically removed, and re-planted.
Even now they grow marvellously fine flowers and fruit-gloxinias, which for beauty of form and purity of tint, could hardly be surpassed, grapes, which for lusciousness and profusion would bear comparison with the produce of larger and more recently made vineries; and there is a big kitchen garden, set round with rose trees and smart flowers, which make a brave show, and fill the air with perfume.
In addition to the navigation between Nottingham and the Humber there are river and canal facilities between Nottingham and Leicester, London, Manchester, Birmingham, Liverpool etc., on which a regular service of barges is available.
The Club Mill stands prominently on the landscape, and is one of the most picturesque objects in the parish.
The east side of the Trent bridge, the wharf and houses, belonged to the Chamberlains about 1740-9, and the west side to the bridge-masters.
Between Dean Street and Hollowstone, Bellar Gate narrows a little and is contracted into a 'straits,' which were nicknamed 'Gibraltar Straits' by our forefathers.
Arms, Armour & Alabaster Round Nottingham by George Fellows (1907)
In 'R. Fleeman & Sons' Limited, Street Guide to Nottingham,' we find 'Union place, 18 Clare Street.
Like the north this arcade consists of four bays, the arches being semi-circular in form with two orders plain chamfered, and the columns round.
A range of stabling and offices was erected in 1778, which have been altered twice since the Racecourse took over, a little further east, well-appointed kennels were erected at the same time, which now stand in ruins.
Position of the Colwick and Netherfield Station on the Grantham line does appear to have some effect on the later expansion, for apart from the block of four houses next to the Church Hall, the next houses were built in the Balmoral Grove area.
John Scot holds a messuage with a garden and two bovates of land (in the Lord's hand)
New branches were established successively at George Street (1876), Kimberley (1883), Newstead, Market Place (1898), High Street, Kimberley No.
A cement mixture which will set under water is mixed at the pit top, and pumped into the water bearing strata surrounding the shaft.
The Priory gatehouse was, however, in existence for more than a century after Dr. Thoroton's time, and stood across Wilford Road, now called Gregory Street, near the end of Abbey Street, and was in existence at the commencement of the 19th century, part of it being occupied for parochial purposes up to the time of its demolition.
The Summer Garden Party at Staunton Hall was well attended and made a small profit.
The Church of St. Peter at York was a stone building, enclosing the little wooden church wherein Edwin had been baptized (A.D. 627) by Paulinus, Bishop of Northumbria.
There were three Toll Bars in the Sutton parish-the one above, one in Forest Street (as mentioned on page 44), and the other at the entrance to Stoneyford Lane.
Two Acres of arrable land in the West field, four acres of Arable land in ye North Field, five acres of pasture in the Broomes, one piece of Meadow in the Giney Carr, one piece of Meadow in the Hall Parkes, halfe an acre in the Clay Close, one other halfe acre in the Great Clay Close, three roodes of meadow abutting upon Thrumpton Lane, one rood in Mr. Richard Brownlow's Close in Thrumpton Lane, one piece of Meadow in Hall Tonge near Dunham Gate.
Hunting the hare on Orwell Hill.
It is lighted by two two-light pointed windows in the south wall and by a good three-light pointed window with large trefoil head, at the east end.
For many years the only pavilion was the small, red-brick, one storey building, at the back of the present Inn.
The rector of Eastwood sued him for deprivation of his rights but the prior successfully pleaded that Fulwood was extra-parochial, being neither burgh, town (village) or hamlet, and the parson was cast in costs.
It possesses no venerable church or other archaeological remains of interest, mid the charm of its coal pits, blast furnaces, canal, and long railway viaduct have failed to appeal to chroniclers of our time.
One bell, the sermon bell, hangs in an opening in the base of the spire, about 4fft.
Cowpasture-hills are levell'd low, And Maple-wells are all closed in: The Forest-side few flowers can show- Its streets grow thick, its woods grown thin !
Two London tailors were among the purchasers of the Norwell manses with appurtenant orchards gardens, and other lands.
South-west of the Priory gate-house, in a close called Marecroft, was the Priory-barn, whose site was marked until lately by the remains of an old building; south of this were other Priory lands, respectively called Laith Fields, Arnall Park, and Arnall Park Wood.
The mill is in Papplewick parish, but is called the 'Bulwell Bone Mill.
whilst the ground floor is assigned to objects of fine and industrial art, and consist of porcelain, pottery, glass, carvings in various materials, metal work in great variety, electrotype reproductions, textile-fabrics, laces, coins, and medals, arms, local antiquities, &c.
The content of ground upon which this tree perpendicularly drops, is above 2827 square yards, which is above half-an-acre of ground: and the assigning of three square yards for an horse, there may 942 be well said to stand in this compass.
Chilwell village stands chiefly on the Bunter sandstone, with keuper marl on the north, and a bed of blue clay on the south, thus the water is held in a trough, from which it flows cool.
Entrance to tunnel on the Welbeck estate.
The church, vicarage and parish institute form a closely packed unit in Talbot Street.
All Hallows' Street, High Street, Church Hill and Church Lane contained all the houses in Ordsall.
A branch of the Nottingham and Ash by Turnpike Road, usually called the Sawley branch, went through Beeston.
The Sand Field occupied a large part of the triangle formed by Derby Road, Ilkeston Road and Radford Marsh.
At some later date the porch was moved from the south to the north side of the church, its old position still clearly marked on the outside of the south wall.
The parish to-day is about 2,000 acres, so we may presume the rest was waste land and marsh.
Here a small tributary of the Poulter forms two miles of the county boundary, which at one point passes through a picturesque ravine in a range of Magnesian Limestone hills.
There are two Boys' Clubs run in connection with the Nottingham City Directorate of Y.M.C.A.'s, at Morley House and London Road.
Beyond Lenton the original course ran through the meadows in a direct line southward to its confluence with the Trent at Wilford, until in due time an artificial channel was made for it to turn eastward in order to bring a supply of water to the Town and Castle of Nottingham.
In 1608, when Anne, Queen of James I, was journeying from Scotland to the coronation, she came here from Hardwick, and was entertained with her train at the Hall.
His wife was Dorothy Raynes, and other children were Gervas, Richard, John, and Mary, christened in Ordsall Church.
Lord Belper let on a lease to the united body his Fields Farm at Kingston, consisting of 176 acres of land, half being in permanent grass, and half arable.
The boundaries of the old parish of Basford stretch from the moat of Broxtowe Hall, defined by a line including Whitemoor, part of Mill-in-the-Hole, by Shipstone and Gladstone Streets, cutting across Carrington Station, and by Redcliffe and Woodborough Roads, Scout Lane, part of the Daybrook Valley, by the Bestwood boundary to near to Bulwell Forest, and dividing the Basford Workhouse, Bagnall and Cinder Hill.
Factories were opened in Nottingham at Handel Street, Man vers Street and Daybrook, and in four neighbouring centres, Heanor, Leicester, Loughborough and Sutton.
The Erewash issues on the north side, flows westward for some distance until it reaches Pinxton, and thence it becomes the western boundary of the county and flows southward to its confluence.
The porch had been renovated, and square coping stones finished off the wall, and at the spring of the arch a square string course went round.
Palaeontological remains of shoals of ganoid, or enamel-scaled fishes have been found in the Upper Keuper at Colwick Woods.
These great walls are clearly of the period when fear of the deadly new siege-weapon, the trebuchet, had, by reason of its much higher power and trajectory than its predecessor, the mangonel, forced castle-builders to abandon their practice of building low stone ring-walls in favour of high curtains.
Leaving the church, the visitor steps into the Market Place, in old time called the Market-stead, a fine square space upwards of an acre-and-a-half in area, of which all Newarkers are justly proud.
In many instances you see the tops of chimnies of one house on a level with the entrance into another, which to strangers, who inhabit, or live in towns seated on a plain, is attracting.
The site of this shaft, now entirely filled in, is under the causeway in front of the shop at the angle of King-street and Greyhound-street.
There was, or still is, a Knob- alley, or yard, in Narrow-marsh.
Returning to the interior of the church we note the four low arches and the massive piers upon which the tower is erected.
A shaft of a small column of Lincolnshire limestone (reddened by fire), which had been thrown down a neighbouring well, may have belonged to this verandah; this pillar was flat at the back, evidently forming a pilaster against a wall and it had a rectangular notch cut in the upper side, probably to support a horizontal beam of wood extending from one pillar to another.
Within the county, notably at Clumber, Welbeck, Thoresby, Newstead, Rufford, Wollaton and Bestwood, are some choice collections, including many examples of work of the great masters.
The Abbey is approached from the high road down a steep hill, which leads to the fine lodge with its stone groined arched entrance as originally constructed.
Ingrain's mill, near the entrance to Wollaton Park, is the oldest mill site in Lenton and is still known as the Abbey mill, while another mill a little higher up-stream is the Prior's mill.
This John Smith is said to have founded the Baptist sect in this country.
FLINTHAM Hall stands just far enough from the old Fosse Road to be removed from the sound of the occasional, and that mostly rustic, traffic, which passes along that broad, continuous highway, still one of the best in the county, after many centuries of wear.
Two sisters of Edmund Rich, Archbishop of Canterbury, were nuns at Catesby.
Thoroton also tells us that Barton built "a fair chapel like a Parish Church" at this place.
The Board School in Kimberley Town, and The Board School at Gilt Hill.
Quarterly, argent and sable, a bend gules.
The platform, as usual, is raised above the land outside, and both mound and platform are now surrounded by a broad ditch, while portions of the ancient bank are still on the counterscarp.
From the lodge gates, a beautiful drive of about a mile and a quarter leads to the Abbey, curving first between banks of rhododendrons backed by forest trees, then emerging into the undulating wide-spreading park, dotted with noble trees and, towards evening-'alive' with rabbits that scamper about amid the bracken.
The Sites of their settlements are still indicated by the suffixes ton and ham in so many village names, as Ruddington, Hoveringham.
The walls are of stone, and the interior contains some fifty cast-iron columns.
Access to the first floor of this tower having been lost through the removal of the Norman river wall with its interior stair, the upper part of this was retained and turned to lead from the upper floor of the Hall range.
If not, the people walked to Clifton for church service, that village possessing both a church and a priest.
The Rectory was a Sinecure, which meant that the Rector had no responsibility to live there, as the parish work was done by the Vicar.
THRUMPTON Hall stands in peaceful seclusion on the right bank of the river Trent, about seven miles above Nottingham.
The Pentagon Local History Society The Pentagon Local History Society has been in existence since 1987 and serves Elston and seven surrounding villages.
Long, long before this the manors of Mansfield Woodhouse and Sutton-in-Ashfield, amongst many others were settled upon the Duke of Norfolk for the great victory over the King of Scotland at Flodden Field.
Side by side with these occur clay-loving forms like the butterfly orchid (Habenaria chioroleuca), meadow geranium (G. pratense),and primrose.
The bedroom over the music room, looking west, with a balcony over the bow is a fine room, and more lofty than the other bedrooms, as it has no room over it.
The high curtains of Windsor mentioned above and completed in 1174 are, however, plentifully supplied with properly-designed wall-towers at intervals, each tower having a good projection to the field.
The name of this place again suggests an early settlement from Daneland, the first residents having transferred to this place a designation from their native country.
The stream still runs its course, but the stepping-stones and the ford have given place to a bridge (1856) and this in turn has been succeeded by a high-level railway bridge; the church still stands beside the stream, but the new bridge has detracted from its dignity and importance, and the new tower and slated roof have given it a modern look.
These gardens were principally situated on the eastern margin of the park, near the present 'Slack Walk.
Bricks were well known throughout the Roman Empire and were very freely used, but somehow during the Early Middle Ages they fell into disuse as far as England in general was concerned although in certain stoneless districts such as Essex, there is a brick-building tradition extending right through the Middle Ages.
Southwell with its cathedral was situated at the southernmost point in the province of the Archbishop of York.
Ralph d' Eyncourt granted to Thurgarton priory all the churches upon his land.
Floods in Front Street.
The Goods Office, a good polished stone building, is on the same side of the street, just over the bridge; and opposite is Station-street, with its two railway stations and the extensive buildings (opposite the Midland Station) of thc Nottingham Manufacturing Company-one among many illustratioas of the commercial importance of the town.
Catherine's Mission Room is situated in Carr Road.
The western end of the north chancel wall, is now pierced by an arch, and contains the organ screen.
Buried on south side of High Altar of Parish Church, i.e., Conventual church, or pre-reformation church.
Residences: Welbeck Abbey, Notts; Bothal Castle, Northumberland; Fullarton House, Ayrshire; Langwell, Caithness.
The gate-house range certainly extended further west than the existing remains, apparently with stables or storehouses running at right angles, and forming with the precinct wall a small quadrangular court within the gate.
The Railway Companies issue return tickets at reduced rate to Edwinstowe, in connection with driving tours starting from that place, including practically the whole of the Dukeries.
There was in Thoroton's day one square steeple left, but its stones were used to make a street causeway.
of the wood anciently called 'Clipston Park,' the King grants them common pasture for their cattle and in Birkeland in Sherwood Forest.
His seat in this county was at Blyth, and in Yorkshire at Tickhill.
There are now Church Trust Schools at Old and New Radford.and Hyson Green, and two Roman Catholic Schools, having together provision for nearly two thousand children, and the Council Schools at Berridge Road, Forster Street, Ilkeston Road, Boulevard, Scotholme, Alfreton Road, Forest Fields, and Wollaton Road, provide for eight thousand children.
From east to west the church is 107 feet in length.
Again, where one perambulation speaks of following the Doverbeck to the Trent and from the Trent to the Bridge of Nottingham, the later parambulation for the same section adds the names of Salterford Dam, Oxton Mill, Epperstone Mill, Grimesmoor, Woodborough Mill, Lowdham Mill, Gonalston Mill, Bakers Mill, Hoveringham Mill, Caythorpe Mill, and the site of the Old Mill at East Bridgford and many others.
John Byron took his second wife to France, squandered a great part of her property, and returned to England, where their only child, George Gordon, was born in Holies Street, London.
Under the shadow of the western wall lies the grave of John Raynor, died in 1897, aged 87, 'parish churchwarden 23 years.
Stone Cottages on Main Street, Papplewick (A Nicholson, 2003).
The approach to the hail is through a spacious park, with whose grand old trees and fine herd of deer many people who take their walks abroad are familiar.
Haughton, upon the acquisition of these estates, was suffered to fall into ruin, and the Duke took up his abode at Welbeck Abbey.
This very picturesque and narrow thoroughfare is part of the old mediaeval business thoroughfare through Nottingham which, as we have seen came down Narrow Marsh and passed north along Bridlesmith Gate.
The Permian bed, that yields such fine building stones in the north of the county, "thins out" south of Mansfield and finally disappears along a line running east and west between Wollaton and Bilborough.
County House on High Pavement (A Nicholson, 2004).
The charmless buildings either side of the entrance to the Broad Marsh Centre that replaced Severn's shop (A Nicholson, 2004).
The area within the castle walls is about 250 ftet in each direction.
St. Luke's and St. Philip's churches are just outside the parochial boundaries, as is also the Christian's Meeting House on Gordon Road.
The Chesterfield canal here passes through the ridge of ground, that is traversed by the road to the north, by means of a tunnel some 270 yards in length and 15 feet in breadth and height.
Meanwhile the countess left Winkburn to return to Belvoir, and so passed beyond the locality with which this present article deals.
A capacious and well-proportioned market-place is flanked on one side by the handsome parish church, whose graceful spire and chaste architecture are the delight of every beholder.
Whether or not a tower was built at this angle at the same time as the west tower it is impossible to say, but it is almost certain that the architect of the late 13th-century alterations would never have left such a salient angle unguarded by a strong tower.
In 1840 Queen Victoria and Prince Consort passed over Heth Beth Bridge in their progress from Nottingham railway station to Belvoir Castle, which accounts for the Royal Arms being displayed upon the present bridge in memory of that occasion.
The parish is in two different hunts, the river Smite forming the boundary between the countries hunted by the Duke of Rutland's (Belvoir) and the South Notts.
County Cricket Ground is in West Bridgford, some 200 or 300 yards on the south side of Trent Bridge, and adjacent thereto is the ground of the Notts Forest Football Club.
From 1683 onwards, Thoresby park (1,270 acres) and Clumber park (3,000 acres) were both cut out.
An ancient little stream called the Tottle Brook rises near Trowell Domesday Torwell-and flows not very far from the Hemlock Stone.
Mr Stevenson further states that: 'This street's name [Coalpit-lane, i.e., the lane leading to the coalpits] along with that of Carter-gate, are relics-shipwrecks of time-pertaining to the ancient low level traffic of Nottingham.
The other eleven houses stood north of the River Trent and west of a line drawn through the middle of the county from Mattersey Priory in the north to the Trent in the south.
Another member of the family, one of the Ossington branch, Sir Hugh Cartwright, of Hexgrave Park, near Edingley, was also on the King's side.
The parish church, dedicated, there is good reason to believe, to St. Nicholas, is claimed by some to be the smallest parish church now in use in England.
The wall would then run behind the old Grammar School, across Bede House Lane, and slightly to the east of Barnby Gate House.
Another large area of unenclosed land lay in the Nether Field -in earlier times called the East Field-which was approached by way of Wigwam Lane.
George Wilkins, D.D.Leaving this holy and consecrated ground, the stranger will do well to cross to the opposite side of the High-pavement, where is a narrow passage, called Malin-hill, which takes us to what is called the Long-stairs, that lead into Red-lion-street, formerly called Narrow-marsh.
John's Well) near the place, which was formed into a large bath, and still remains entire; during the early part of the last century, it was famous for many cures, but latterly it has lost much of its celebrity.
The northern or lower end of Beck Lane, and the southern or higher end of Beck Street were divided by a main road of fair width at that part, termed St. John Street.
Colonel Hutchinson, who held Nottingham Castle during the Civil War, and General Ireton, Cromwell's son-in-law, were both well-known names in the county.
Huthwaite, and Fulwood, the headquarters being in Sutton, where the Police Station, at the junction of Market Street and Low Street, was erected in 1861.
In 1228 the tower of the monastic church fell, and in the next year the king gave the monks quarry rights in Nottingham Forest to help them repair the damage.
Next are the Nine Culverts, built in 1809, to carry off the flood water, which sometimes rises to an amazing height, and next is a broad arch over what is called the Chainey Pool, which derived its name from a bridge supported by chains, being formerly over it.
At their upper ends Chandlers' Lane and Bottle Lane were entirely distinct, but connected by little Queen Street, which, according to my large scale unique plan, was about thirty-two yards in length.
He also sold several outlying estates at this time, the last of the Foljambe Derbyshire property, the estates at Steeton, in Yorkshire, South Kelsey, in Lincolnshire, and the Irish estates in co.
According to Staveley & Wood's plan, 1831, there were then no houses between the Beck and Sneinton Road, south of Pierrepont Street, and between Haywood and Byron Streets from Sneinton Road to the Asylum was all gardens, as was also where Walker Street now is.
Entering the church, we find the arcades of the nave are of four bays: the tower being built over part of the westernmost bay.
of Headon Park, in the county of Nottingham.
This went from Nottingham through Mansfield with its royal manor Warsop, and Worksop with its great priory.
Almost opposite St. Nicholas Church is St. Nicholas Street which was known in 1255 as Venella Judaeorum or Jew Lane a name which clung to it right down to modern times, for it was the ghetto or dwelling place of the Jews in Nottingham.
The visitor who is going North along the centre of England will find an excellent road through St. Albans, Northampton, Leicester, Loughborough, and Nottingham.
During the First World War, in 1917, Sir Ernest Jardine, purchased 400 acres of river frontage for a Sugar Works.
Thorney-wood covered the plains from Mapperley to Woodborough, and on the southern slope was the Gedling wood, and the Marshall hills, where at holiday times Nottingham people went nutting and blackberrying.
To our left runs SOUTH PARADE, forming the lower side of the Market Place, parallel with Long Row.
Wilfrid improved the minster of York, built a splendid church at Hexham, and raised a new minster at Ripon, which is dedicated to him.
John Evelyn Denison, Speaker of the House of Commons (1857-72),was born at Ossington.
As the first monks at Lenton had come from Cluny, the abbot had the right of nomination to Lenton.
Abraham Crespin, the elder thus acquires three properties in Wall-strete Nottingham, .
Another stocks was at the end of the Town Hall, which stood in the Marketplace parallel with the White Hart and the shops adjoining.
From the market-place, the stranger should go up Pelham-street, and continue a straight course to the bottom of Hockley, then through Snenton-street, and bending to the right into Water-street, at the bottom of which in the corner is a narrow passage, called Pennyfoot-stile.
Section of caves approached by perpendicular shafts; the latter, apparently, once fitted with staves, ladder fashion.
On or near this, the nucleus of the forest area of the county, were situated five of the thirteen monasteries of the county-Blyth, Mattersey, Welbeck, Worksop and Rufford.
There was a time, and not so long ago as many people perhaps imagine, when Kirkby-in-Ashfield, as a village, practically extended from the old cross to the more ancient church of St. Wilfrid only.
For designs Paris and other centres are drawn upon, and materials of a high quality are supplied by Scotland, the West of England, and the Yorkshire woollen districts.
We first pass through the suburb of Radford, chiefly an artizan district, turning to the right at the Council Schools, while the Alfreton Road keeps straight on.
The Smith Family, Bankers, at Nottingham, Derby, Lincoln, Hull, and many other places, and in London.
The first office was the conveyance of the dead body of the queen from Harby to Lincoln, where it was deposited in the Gilbertine Priory in the south suburb of that ancient city, where the great Roman High Street is parted in its course-one branch, the Ermine Street, running to Stamford, the other westwards as the Foss-way to Leicester.
The fifty-eight acres of meadow would be grass land probably near the river, and would be enclosed, while the plough land would be in three open fields in narrow strips.
Previous to the building of S. Barnabas' Church Hall, Services and a Sunday School had been held in a building adjoining Lenton Abbey.
The town authorities bored into the red sandstone on the West Carr Hills, about a mile from the town, sank a well, put down machinery, and provided tower and reservoir at an outlay of  15,258.
Its course thus lies parallel to and 15 miles from the Belvoir Escarpment and the Lincoln Cliff.
On the spot where he fell a stream of pure water gushed from the ground, and continued to flow plentifully and brightly ever after.
Robert Wood, D. D., the head master, resides in a good house, close to the school; the usher is the Rev.
And attached to the estate there was 70 acres of meadow, and half a church, 4 acres of underwood, and 4 acres of willow plantation (Vic.
Richard Parkes Bonington, born at Arnold, four miles from Nottingham, early obtained favourable notice as a painter, but died in 1801 at the early age of twenty-seven.
There is much good ship timber in the Forest.
Further, the boundary of parishes abutting on the Trent is usually at the mid-stream, but in Toton it is not so, for the southern bank is the boundary.
On the south wall of Holland & Webb's warehouse (the west limit of 'Weekday Cross'), has been placed a Holbrook Bequest Memorial tablet of white marble, enclosed in a metal frame, on which is incised, in five lines of sans serif letters, these words:-
converted Bisham priory in Berkshire and the diocese of Salisbury into an abbey; but in this case an Augustinian house was occupied by Benedictine monks from the prematurely suppressed abbey of Chertsey.
From the other side of the Wolds the streams at first flow westward.
About 1871 Frank Wilkinson commenced in the fancy warp and Shetland fall trade, afterwards going into the lace curtain trade and developing it considerably, building the Anglo-Scotian Mills on the site of Felkin's old factory.
It was a Royal Manor when Kings came to hunt in the Forest, and John Cockle, the Miller of Mansfield, is the hero of the well-known legend, which describes how King Henry II.
In 1232 the regarders were content when they left Linby Mill to specify 'thence descending by the same water (Leen) to the Town of Lenton, and thence as that water was wont of old time to run as far as to the water called Trente,' but in 1588 for the same section was specified more fully:
In 1681, John Walker destroyed the highway leading from Epperstone to Southwell and Rossel Wood.
The land lies in the neighbourhood of the intersection of the Nottingham and Bolsover road by the Mansfield and Alfreton main road.
In going from this mill by footpath either to Sneinton Hermitage or to Sneinton Church it was necessary to cross not only Pennyfoot Stile, but also the little wooden bridge over the Beck.
Two hundred to one against Rush" shouted Lord George Bentinck as Squire Osbaldeston was riding Bush at walking pace past the stand to the starting-post just before the race.
A tablet in memory of Francis Parks, born at Knott-Cross (1674) in this parish, and died at Nottingham 29th.
The left hand of this lobby was open to the debtor's yard and the passage leading to their cells, from which it was divided by strong iron bars, reaching from floor to ceiling, ten feet in height.
Mary's Cathedral* stands well back from the street in an extensive old burial ground.
In a line with the northern side of the new stables is a glass covered arcade 1,270 feet long, and containing upwards of 64,000 feet.
Having crossed this low point, its line was Barker Gate, Pilcher Gate, Byard Lane, and Pepper Street.
This priory of Austin Canons was founded in honour of St. Peter, on the outskirts of the village of Thurgarton, just over three miles south of Southwell, about 1140 by Ralph, second son of the Walter D'Aincourt who came over to England with the Conqueror and from whom he received thirty-four manors in Nottinghamshire, including Thurgarton.
John Mather, vicar of this parish, who died in 1625; and near the chancel arch, on the north wall is another mural monument to "Ffrancis Jaques, allias Gamboul of Toton, gent," who died 1606.
The bell is elaborately decorated, in good condition, and was cast at George Oldfield's foundry, at the back of Long Row, Nottingham, at a time when many bells were being made there, judging from the number of Oldfield's bells hanging in Nottingham, churches.
There was allotted to the Surveyor of Highways in Audham Field, on Ruddington lane, two acres, and on Gravel Pit hill, on the Loughborough road, two acres, for the more convenient and easy getting and carrying of gravel for the highways.
He has his residences in both counties-Osberton amid Aldwark-and a pretty hunting-box and Monks' Tower, near Lincoln.
The Bulwell Forest Golf Club meets here, also the Artizans', St. Andrew's Institute, etc. The Great Northern and Great Central Stations are on the course, and the Midland close to.
You are there on an elevated site, where, looking east, you have a roughly square area, naturally defended on four sides by great valley or water lines, the spot where you stand resembling a bridge or entrance into an area, one that a few yards rise of water would convert into a peninsula, where now it is only a promontory.
Sailing westward he came to a river and harbour where he decided to pass the winter.
On the shore of that (Plymouth) Harbour lies a granite boulder; it is said to be the only one directly on the water's edge for several miles.
It is deep and canal-like and runs alongside the Idle, but at a much lower level.
Hard-staff was working in 1785, until he was ordained pastor there in 1799, and in 1806 he came occasionally to his kinsman Simpson's house in Beardall Street to preach.
The new vicar was to have a house built at the cost of the prior and convent of Beauvale, the house to stand on the king's highway, near the church, and all expenses in his church to be borne by the said prior and convent for ever, The stipend was to be of the annual value of six marks sterling, and included the mortuaries, and oblations, and the tithes of wool, and Iamb, and other small tithes.
His sisters seldom visited him, although one of them, Lady Ossington, lived at Ossington Hall, about 15 miles away, in the same county as Welbeck.
A  'new county hall' was being built outside the city and departments based at the Shire Hall were slowly being transferred to the new building.
Nottingham Fields (now Forest) lay to the south, and Nottingham Lings toward the east-that is the district of Mansfield Road.
The collection of Wedgwood ware is arranged in the central court, with other collections of keramic art.
Some of our older citizens will, with myself, remember the period when Wollaton Street, the lower end of which commences against Upper Parliament Street, and runs to the large open square on the top of Derby Road (the north-east side being mainly grass fields), was entitled Back Lane.
Natural Features dependent on Soils-Coal-Measures: their Extent under the County-The Magnesian Limestone and Creswell  'Bone-Caverns' -The New Red Sandstone, and the  'Forest Lands' of Notts-Hemlock Stone-The Keuper Marls and Gypsum-The Lias-Ancient Course of the Trent to Lincoln and the Wash-Museums
The route next traverses a path flanked and arched over by ancient yew trees, many of them dating back to the days of the monks and certainly more than five centuries old.
There is a large mural monument to his memory in Wollaton Church on the north wall of the chancel.
Consisting as it does of layers of sandstone and clay, it yields a fertile loamy soil and an abundant supply of water which can be obtained from springs or by means of shallow wells.
At Ollerton Corner, near the junction of the old Blyth Road and the Worksop highway, are a number of well-grown beeches, planted in four parallel lines of nearly half a mile in length, forming three fine avenues.
Such delightful grassy undulations; hills rising gently in the distance, grand old trees, the growth of centuries, and the gleam of water down in the hollow.
The county town has a population of 40,000, with fine churches, banks, and public buildings.
Upon the enclosure of the forest lands over 100 years ago, a piece of land at Forest Side, containing rather more than an acre, was allotted in respect of this close.
In the ordnance map an old road is shewn on the opposite bank of the Trent where the Roman way goes down to the water.
For thirty miles, from Nottingham to Blyth, the Old North Road passed through forest land whose intricacies made guides more necessary than ever.
A small window in the eastern face of the belfry, in the western tower (rebuilt), looks into the church.
Proceeding up the street-Postern-street-visitors will find themselves at the top of Park-row, opposite one of the covered reservoirs which supply the town with water.
It consists of choir with lady chapel and sacristy, north and south transepts, nave (45 feet high), and central tower and spire of an altitude of 175 feet.
A Roman milestone, fourteen miles to Littleborough, is now in the Lincoln museum.
This district originally formed the southern portion of that large tract of flat marsh land, some 70,000 acres in extent, known as the "Levels of Hatfield Chase.
The office is situated at the junction of King Street, New Street, and the Market Place.
Malin Hill was a bridle road all through the middle ages and seems to connect up with Stoney Street though how it managed to join on to Stoney Street it is difficult to explain, particularly when one knows the later history of Stoney Street.
What centuries it must have taken to form the rich deep soil on which this beautiful verdant pasture is spread between them!
East Retford church from the south-west.
The remains of the side walls were about one foot under ground, in clearing two feet of earth, he came to a stucco floor, which covered one large flat stone and two or three small ones.
Morris's tender for constructing culvert in Hallam's Lane, and 12 inch drain in Nottingham Road,  970, accepted.
It would be hard to find a place in Nottingham more beautiful and more replete with memories than is St. Peter's Church.
To do away with some of this traffic the sheep and cattle market was moved to Beastmarket Hill as we have seen, in 1808, where the cattle market had been in ancient times.
So Hudson returned to Charles at Oxford.
Next > Southwell Cathedral from south-east.
We must pause to admire the famous Lime Tree Avenue which runs at right angles to our path.
Radford or (Rede ford): from the fact of the red sandstone in the banks; and Lenton: (Leen-ton).
What these are to our county the moorland of Devon and Cornwall, the Welsh mountains, or the fells of Cumberland and Westmorland are to the rest of England.
Stukeley specifically avers that he saw  'the Roman foundations of walls and floors of houses, and coins and other relics have been dug up on Castle Hill close by.
A large quantity of land facing the Victoria Embankment, and extending to the Mundella School, has been enclosed with a view to an Exhibition being held.
The Fullers Water Mill (near G.N.R. Station site) gave names to Tenter Field (now Millott's Yard), Tenter Hill (now partly occupied by Duke Street), and the Tenter Close adjacent.
The first Public Library established in the parish was in 1857, the principal founder being Mr. H. Columbine.
Twenty years ago or more, a fire, the origin of which has never been satisfactorily ascertained, wrecked Kelham Hall, and left its four bare walls standing, charred and grim, amid the same trees which with ampler boughs shelter and protect from eastern blasts, its more magnificent successor.
Between Plumtree Street and Stoney Street stood the town house of the family of Thornhaugh, who were an old county family.
In 1874 party feeling ran high in Hucknall and efforts were made to transfer the control of the land from the committee to certain other persons, but a County Court decision enabled the committee to retain their management of the gardens.
The road to the left is the high road to Derby (sixteen miles), the next leads to Ilkeston (eight miles), and the one along which the tram proceeds, to Alfreton (sixteen miles).
This may be correct when applied to London, or the principal towns, or the home or southern counties?
He also laid down the "Concrete Road", which was to be the cause of many winter floods on the Vale, as it worked as a dam against the natural flow of the flood waters.
In Exchange Street, to the right, are the Corn Exchange, Butter Market, Temperance Hall, and Police Station.
Other centres are Mansfield, Sutton-in-Ashfield, Hucknall Torkard, Southwell, Retford, Worksop, and West Stockwith.
Steady into the little valley, then up the hill between these straight well-grown limes, round the curves we swing until we enter Clumber Park, about eleven miles in circumference and having an area of nearly 4,000 acres.
Shipman gives a geological section from the Tottle Brook on the west of the parish, to the south of Nottingham Park, and another from Wollaton Hall to Clifton Grove.
Rad-clive, or Redhill has long been noted for its excellent alabaster, and the quarries hereabouts have supplied material, not for church purposes only, but also for chimney-pieces, columns, wall-linings and pilasters, which are to be seen in a number of houses in the neighbourhood:-Kingston Hall, Keddlestone Hall, Staunton-Harold, Stamford Hall, the chapel at Welbeck, and the Mausoleum at Brocklesby.
Standing near the place where the foot-road to Nottingham (Birch Lane, now Sherwin Road) branched off, were the village stocks.
Gascoigne in the most westerly house in Edwards Lane, afterwards owned by Mr. Arthur Wells, and now by Mr. Woolley.
Yet, the foundation of "The John Robinson Memorial Church" was laid at Gainsborough by the American Ambassador, June 29th, 1896.
Travellers along that most popular route, the Great North Road, can visit Nottingham by deviating to the west for about twenty miles.
This work was carried out in a superior kind of 'water-stone,' mixed with warm coloured calcareous limestone from a Leen Valley quarry.
Charles Ichabod Wright, best known as Colonel Wright, of Stapleford Hall, in this county, and of Watcomb Park, Devonshire, is the head of a family which has every claim to be numbered amongst the representatives of the great houses of this county.
The original limits of the Greasley Churchyard were southward as far as where the large elm tree stands; eastward no further than our Churchwalk; westward to the present boundary wall; and northward as far as the boundary of the old Vicarage grounds.
On 10th August, 1437, licence was given to prior Cutwolf and the convent to enclose eight acres of ground in Sherwood forest, immediately in front of the gatehouse and boundary dyke of the priory, with a dyke and a quick-set hedge according to the assize of the forest.
There is a stream flowing from the Stapleford hills, and a spring near to Bramcote Hall.
This bridge, on the Grantham Road, was over the water of Bridgford brook, which in flood times formed a torrent, and the bridge became known as Lady Bay bridge.
Early in the fourteenth century Blyth Priory was reduced to the brink of ruin by the cost of a visit of King Edward II and his entourage on their way to Scotland.
A strong liking for rural life-regarding sweet air, narrow field paths threading pastures bright with the colour of the commonest flowers, or fields of standing corn, from which the smallest wind chafes measured music; lanes that are either dusty or not, according to the humour of the weather, but always interesting in the months of spring and summer, and a host of other wayside charms, as the conditions of such a life-has taken me into most of the villages of this county.
John, the heir of Ichabod, was also a banker in Nottingham; he married a daughter of John Sherbrooke, of this town, and left issue several children, one of whom, Samuel, of Gun-thorpe, married a daughter of Lord Coventry.
As this prelate is reputed to have built churches in the district, he may have been the founder of Norwell's first church, which was probably a modest structure of timber.
A toll bar was set up near Bobbers Mill, and a chain across the road near to Thackeray's factory; another bar was near to Radford Railway Station, and on Derby Road, one near to the top of Balfour Road, and another near to Beeston Lane end.
The principal approach to Rufford Abbey is by the lodge on the Nottingham Road.
The late Thomas Huskinson restored the place, built the main block of the house, the stone gateway and walls, and set out the forecourt and yew hedges.
William Job Charlton Staunton, M.A., of Staunton Hall in this County, and Vicar of Aslackby, Lincolnshire, who departed this life April 10th, MDCCCXL, in the 38th year of his age.
Within the stout gray walls of Newark Castle, the ruined remains of which still bid defiance to Time's destroying hand, King John ended his troublous and unworthy days; from the equally strong fortress which dominated the county town, Richard III.
Accordingly Johnson rode his well-tried friend over to the great horse market at Mansfield and sold him.
Sir JAMES LOMAX BARDSLEY, son of EDWIN BARDSLEY, of Lenton, was born at the south-west corner of Sherwin Road.
The rest of the parks were totally destroyed, both wood, pales, and deer; amongst which was also Clipston Park, of seven miles compass, wherein my lord had taken much delight formerly, it being rich of wood, and containing the greatest and tallest timber trees of all the woods he had; insomuch that only the pale row was valued at  2,000.
On the 29th, August 1922, the New Parish Hall was opened, and when the Nottingham and Colwick Estates laid on electricity to the village, this was the first place to be wired up, and the lights were switched on for the first time on Thursday, 15th January, 1925.
The town of Lincoln is naturally divided into two parts, one being level down in the Witham valley, where the railway stations are, and the other occupying the steep and lofty hill, which is crowned by the noble Cathedral.
They, therefore, with substantial help by the late Mr. James Fox, a local preacher, of Pleasley, built the place (which is now known as 'The old 'Ebenezer' Chapel,') now occupied by the Parish Church Young Men's Institute in Hardwick Street.
I have previously, in this paper, referred to a somewhat notable depression in the ground, not far from the gateway in Waverley Street, in which, during rainy seasons, a large pool of water accumulated.
The tiny river Ryton still runs its course, as it has done for centuries, spanned at one end of the village street by a water-mill, the ancient stones of which bear the names of the people who cut them in 1710.
There are in the two miles of houses with Cobden Park on the west, and Sherwood Rise on the east, six Parish or District Churches and seven Mission halls or rooms, three Congregational chapels, four Baptist, three Wesleyan.
Ordsall village is about a mile to the south-west of Retford, half a mile from the line of the Great North Road, and a quarter of a mile from the railway-station.
Passengers for Nottingham change at Grantham, coming from the South, and at Newark coming from the North.
Lockerbie Street, which was built by William Lawrence's, would also have been put up at this time.
In 1808, 9,000 square yards of land, being part of the castle estate, was sold by the Duke of Newcastle for 15/- per yard.
A careful comparison between this work and the chancel at Arnold-built about thirty years earlier by the same school-where a stone newel staircase leading from the south aisle to the rood-loft is worked in the respond of the chancel arch, leads me to conclude that a similar arrangement was adopted here, but probably the stairs in this case led from the chancel and were made of wood instead of stone.
Notintone Place ' is the name of a well-known street in Sneinton, and forms a sort of half-way house between the ancient and modern name for this ancient settlement.
The water from fourteen and a half square miles of fenland south of the Idle flows into minor drains and from them into the Morther Drain.
They will be kept in the College collection housed in the buildings at University Park, Highfields.
Romano-British pottery, found at Brough.
The galleries thus formed are on three sides open corridors communicating with the rooms behind; but the upper stage of the north walk, next the church, is the library, entered by a doorway from the east corridor near the head of the garden stair, and by another from the west corridor close to the head of the north-western staircase.
A well known example of this is the Bell Harry Steeple or Tower at Canterbury Cathedral; and close at home is the village of Sturton-le-Steeple, so called from the lofty tower possessed by its Church.
Here we turn to the left into Hollow Stone, which takes us into The Pavement, past St. Mary's Church (pp.
The speediest way of getting to the gardens is by traversing a grand old flagged terrace, flanked all along by a high wall covered with creeping plants which grow in the sweetest confusion.
Three Canal Closes take their name from the Grantham and Nottingham Canal, made in 1793, which cuts off a small strip of the parish bordering on Owthorpe.
Shortly afterwards the Royal prisoner passed once more through Nottingham in charge of General Fairfax.
As the parish was not then enclosed, this must have been permission to enclose the main village street on the lines of the present walls opposite the Hall (formerly the Manor), so that the street is only 30ft.
The stucco-fronted building opposite the College is Shakespeare Street Chapel (UNITED METHODIST FREE CHURCH), and the handsome red-brick edifice, with stone facings, is the Poor Law Guardians' Office.
The very form of the streets, roads, or passages, in each village suggests that roads, with bends at right angles, were the headlands of cultivated strips, which afterwards became crofts with hedges.
In earlier days there was a college of priests attached to the church, founded in 1320 by Geoffrey le Scrope, and a few years later augmented by Thomas de Sibthorpe, the good parson of Beckingham.
The Fields Meadows, Commons, and Waste Land were said to be incapable of any considerable improvement at that time under the old system.
His estate was at Northbourne, in Kent, in the church of which is a marble tomb with figures in relief representing him and his wife.
The traffic had to get up the precipice as best it could, first by Malin-hill and Long Stairs and then by Hollow Stone.
He also restored the Hall, enclosing the park with a wall, three miles in circumference, and built to a great extent on arches; a method that was new in England.
The grand fragment of the Priory Church, consisting of the west front, in the Early English and Geometrical styles of architecture, is on our left hand as we face the building, while on our right is the tower, of Norman design, erected by Colonel Wildman, who purchased the Abbey from the needy and not over-provident poet in 1818.
William Lee, Curate of Calverton, seven miles from Nottingham, invented the stocking-frame.
The kitchen gardens cover an immense area of ground, and produce every kind of fruit and vegetable.
Under this place a winding passage less than four feet in height, and, consequently, only to be traversed in a stooping posture, led to a well over a hundred feet deep.
Clumber park contains about 4,000 acres, 87 of which, being covered with water, constitute the Lake.
Now the upper garden and small field on Ollerton Road).
Waterfall from Upper Lake to Garden Lake.
Journeying from East Bridgford to Shelford, by the higher road along the cliff, we cannot help being struck, as we approach this village, with the exceptional beauty of the valley of the Trent at this point; and with the effective position which the church and its massive tower hold in the landscape.
This Church was at that time, connected with the religious establishment of Worksop.
lady took up hsr abode at Weir Mill farm, situated in the vicinity of the Abbey, and no one seemed to know who she was nor whence she came.
The gardens are laid out in Dutch fashion, and they contain some fine shrubs, including two small fir trees, brought from Nova Scotia, which seem to thrive in North Nottinghamshire soil.
The church of the Holy Trinity at Everton may be taken as the model of a group of village churches, built by the Normans shortly after the Conquest, along the route of the Roman road that crossed the northern part of our county, connecting York with Lincoln, via Doncaster and Littleborough.
Walnut Tree Lane is a sunken road whose rocky sides have been cut away to accommodate the erection of buildings, the original ground level being shown by Castle Terrace and St. Nicholas Churchyard.
says: 'The gravel from the west is a high level gravel.
The three open arable fields were called the Sand Field, Allen Field-called Alwell Field in a survey of 5 Jas.I-and Beck Field.
This very picturesque and narrow thoroughfare is part of the old mediaeval business thoroughfare through Nottingham which, as we have seen came down Narrow Marsh and passed north along Bridlesmith Gate.
Standing on this bridge, which was probably the work of the same architect who designed the lodge at Apleyhead, he looks from a considerable elevation upon a large expanse of water, and the fine trees which clothe its steep banks on either hand ; while on the north side of the lake is Clumber House, the gardens, and the church.
At that time its borders extended from Nottingham up the Leen to Newstead, thence through Kirkby and Skegby to the Meden and along that stream to Perlethorpe ; from this place it stretched southwards along the North Road, Dover Beck, and the Trent back to Nottingham.
At a distance of nearly twenty miles to the east, the princely mansion of the Duke of Rutland, Belvoir castle, may be plainly seen on a fine day, and so may also the Leicestershire hills; to the south, over the majestic river Trent, is the well-known grove of Clifton; while nearer still is to be seen, the castle of Nottingham, and at the western extremity of the park are
George Street is so called in honour of George de Lign Gregory, who sold the land upon which George Street was formed for building, about 1810.
Alureton-a very small place near Kilvington.
A little distance beyond the Cemetery, and on the same side of the road, is a brick structure of Gothic design-' the-Congregational Institute '-an Independent College for the training of about fifty students, who are non-resident.
This mill has an old legal claim to the water from Bulwell, which accounts for their having the water piped from the well to the works.
came Kinge James toward eveninge to Newarke castell, where hee lodged that night & the next day beeinge good Friday departed towards Beaver castell.
An ideal spot this for such an establishment, rich water-meadows on the island, light soil requiring plenty of irrigation and receiving it, wooded country teeming with game across the stream, and plenty of fish for Fridays, from the lordly salmon to the humble perch.
By the courtesy of Dr. Thomas Wright, of Castle Place, we have been permitted to reproduce two old pictures, one of the Castle Lodge and one of the Castle Wall, shewing the old track leading to Lenton.
Later on, the church was enlarged, and the beautiful early English arches shown in the photograph were pierced through the Norman wall about the time that King John signed Magna Charta.
This is quite inaccurate, for it grows on poor soil, but that near Ling-dale, otherwise Bowling Alley, and near to Lark Dale, was excellent pasture land, and much good hay was at times gathered from and near to them.
The County Council finally closed its offices at the Shire Hall in the early 1960s when the last of the departments transferred to County Hall in West Bridgford.
Wallstone Place,' off the same street, may have been so-called because of stone being quarried in the vicinity for building walls with, thus 'wall-stone.
This Order had five houses in Nottinghamshire and no other Order had more than one house for men.
Straw and Webster were entered by descending three stone steps, and the late Mr. W. Parker, prior to taking up his residence in Stoney Street, lived there.
In 1901 an essay into farming was made by entering the tenancy of Farley Farm of 168 acres, part of which is in Hucknall and part in Bulwell parish.
This tradition did not obtain in Nottingham, and this first brick 'George and Dragon' was erected in 1615.
From the Ruddington Road there may be seen a fine panorama of Nottingham and the rich valley of the Trent, while far and wide stretches a well-wooded landscape, with diversified views of hill and dale.
Even after 1870, when there were developments in buildings by reason of mining and railways, there came Monkey Park, Hell Row, Cracker Park, etc.
The most direct way to Nottingham was by a footpath through a large field belonging to the Reppen family and through two other fields which brought you out on to Denman Street at Bloomsgrove and then on up Denman Street to the top of Derby Road.
Throughout the whole of its line from the east end of Brewhouse Yard to the top of Park Row, this great earthwork is rated as a hundred, a manor, a county, and a parish boundary.
The grounds are intersected by a broad gravel walk and they terminate at the margin of a spacious lake, which glistens in the mid-day sunshine.
The chief building material employed is crystalline millstone grit from Ashover Moor, four miles away.
In the grounds of Bridgford Hall, about 1828, a newly-erected well-cover is said to have been inscribed in black-letter with lines from Scott's 'Marmion,' inviting the passenger to drink and pray for the soul of ' Sybil Grey, who built this cross and well.
Entrance to the Meering Chapel, Sutton-on-Trent.
Blyth) rectory, more especially as it lay contiguous to Scrooby.
During this time the Great Hall, 130 feet long and 22 feet wide, was built, with kitchens, chapel, etc. adjoining.
It may be here mentioned that the Eastheld Side Chapel has purchased a plot of land near to the Mansfield Road Council Infants' School for the erection of a new place of worship, their present one being in Barn Street.
There was a thick holly fence separating the Vicarage kitchen garden from the Churchwalk, which was then called Black Lane, and it is said (whether true or not we know not) that suicides used to be buried under that lane.
Dickinson, in his history of Southwell, gives a map describing the road between Nottingham and Mansfield as a Roman highway.
Passing the Police and Fire Stations, Her Majesty's Prison, and turning up the main road (Milton-street) to the right, visitors will pass Trinity Church, the Mechanics' Institution, and at the corner of the next street (on the same side), Morley House-a brick and stone building-will be reached.
To me it seems most probable that Mam was once the name of one of the numerous rounded sandstone hills near Mansfield, that the hill later came to be called Mammeskeued, and that Mansfield contains the hill name.
Towards the end of the 18th century, offices and warehouses were opened in London in Russia Row, and afterwards transferred to 18 Wood Street, the present headquarters of the firm, and one of the most important business sites in the city of London occupying long frontages in Wood Street, Gresham Street and Milk Street.
Very large Council Schools adjoin the Boulevard.
A second recreation ground is situated in Hardwick Lane, the area being three acres.
William de Lovetot the elder also made a grant of land in a remote portion of Ecclesfield parish, for the benefit of a recluse, whose hermitage was dedicated to St. John.
Boris Stefanov, Sara Gadzik and Ruth Hide outside St Peter's Church, East Bridgford.
Gravitation carried heavy traffic downhill and horse-power did the rest.
These names start from the extreme south end of the parish, bordering on Hickling, Long Clawson and Hose, and work northwards towards the village.
The grounds were fittingly laid out with garden-beds, with trees and shrubs on the grass-lands.
But seen deep, down the cliff's impending tide, ' Thro' hanging woods, now gleams its silver tide.
In 1795, in February, the flood came on here in the night, it was three feet deep in the Market Place, and the current was so strong as to tear up the pavement.
Godfrey refers to the Abbey Orchard and states that it was intersected by the Nottingham Canal.
Either by accident or design, the short road situated on the south side of Derby Road Methodist Church, and leading to the entrance to the Cottesmore Schools, has been appropriately named Sandfield Road.
14th century gatehouse to Worksop Priory as seen in the 1900s.
The Temple is a square building with two low wings, one on the south side, and the other on the north.
The house at Arnold where Bonington was born, tradition says, is the large and tall house in High Street, near the south-west corner of Bond Street, but there is no evidence to support this.
The deep pool may refer to a mill dam, since there has been a mill in the village from a very early date; or again local lime trees may also have contributed to the identification of the place.
It is a shoulder blade of a whale and is used as a sign board for the 'Royal Children' at the corner of St. Nicholas Street and Castle Gate.
The first passenger train from Retford to Doncaster ran on September 4th, 1849, there being, a small passenger station at Scrooby.
According to Doomsday record, he was possessed, in this county alone, of one hundred and seventy-four manors, being the greatest part of ninety townships, besides very many other towns, which were partly or altogether soke to some of them.
I went from Grantham to Cottom, and saw a very pritty church, good brick farm houses and very rich grazing grounds well fenced with quick, the verdure beautifull, but scarce any trees but Owlers, or Willows, and but few of them; from thence I went to Sibthorpe, which joins the other lordship, and saw much the same sort of grounds and houses, and a good church, in it a fine alablaster monument of the Markham family that married one of the Cheshire Warburtons ; from thence I went to Staunton, Mr. Charleton's, and dined with him and his family ...
The principal hall, 100 feet long and 40 feet wide, with the small gallery over the entrance, will accommodate 1,000 people, The council-chamber is a stately room, its windows looking out upon the Market-place.
Mid-17th century cottage on Main Street, Sutton Bonington (A Nicholson, 2006).
The road anciently skirting the inner line of the defences (along what is now the south side of Lower Parliament Street), and contiguous to the extensive earthenware manufactories once flourishing there, appears to have been the 'Potters-Street' of mediaeval times.
Also the same Ralph is to have all chattels waived and estrays arising within the said Forest and Woods, and all Chiminage in the said Forest, Parks, and Woods.
The above is no doubt the origin of the present road from this town or priory to Mattersey town and priory.
The western side of the house was covered by the offices, a small village, and a church, interspersed with many trees.
A Garden and yard on the south side of the House, which consists of a Rood of Ground surrounded and divided by Brick walls.
The fertile tract of country stretching from Greasley Church to the Erewash Valley was then a forest or park, and it was within this forest, in the Beauvale, that Nicholas the Warrior resolved to establish a religious house.
was held by a canon of West Dereham in Norfolk.
The history of the town is essentially that of its ancient abbey church and manor-house.
That road, for some reason, appears to have deviated to the south on leaving Littleborough, for a lane which runs from Coates to Habblesthorpe is called 'Street Lane.
So far as I have been able to trace it, their work in this county commenced with the famous chapter house at Southwell (1285-1300).
It passed by or through Arnold parish for 41/2 miles, 21/2being marked on the maps as Mansfield Road and the rest as Rufford Road, On this road possibly the Danes came in 868, having sacked York, to do the same for Nottingham, burning churches and houses on the march.
At Thorneywood is a field of eight acres of grass land, which was anciently a part of the Forest or Wood Common, and enclosed probably centuries ago by the consent of the King.
His principal residence appears to have been at Greasley, the mansion-house standing in a field near the church, where portions of it remain to this day.
The other brothers, who are well known here, are Mr. Henry Smith Wright, of Park Hill, in Hampshire; Mr. Frederick Wright, of Lenton Hall, a place which, generations ago, was occupied by his ancestors; and Mr. George Howard Wright.
But Crossland-place was part of the Marsh slum area, and, with it, has entirely disappeared to give place to the new Cliff-road housing estate built by the Corporation.
There is preserved in York Cathedral the maser of an Archbishop of this diocese (for until 1886 the county of Nottingham was in the Diocese of York).
It was commonly reported, near the close of the 18th century, that the little River Leen had along its banks more cotton and flour mills than any similar stretch of stream in the country.
Welbeck contains 2,283A. 3R. 3P. of land, and anciently formed part of the Manor of Cuckney, which was held by Sweyn, a Saxon.
This place is about a mile from Nottingham, and is resorted to by the town's people as a tea garden, and also for the use of its well, which has been converted into a bath, the water of which is exceedingly cold.
Hodsock (two miles south-west of Blyth) is in the parish of Blyth.
Evidently at this Rufford meeting he was a keen opponent of the Nottingham proposal to remove the County Hall from the High Pavement to the Market Place.
This stone is still to be seen in the church, to the north of the chancel arch.
Horsfield and Lower, of the latter county, in controversy respecting the locale of the Merry Tales, for the place-name Gotham exists in Sussex.
and on remounting the hill, Radcliffe-on-Trent was passed, and Holme Pierrepont reached at five o'clock, where the rector, the Rev.
Holy Trinity, the parish church of Kimberley, has a mission room at Hill Top, and the following denominations have also places of worship in the parish :-
Sutton is in the Mansfield Union and County Court district, Nottingham Bankruptcy Court district, Broxtow Wapentake, Mansfield Petty Sessional Division, Sutton Polling District, Mansfield Parliamentary Division of the County, Mansfield Rural Deanery, Nottingham Archdeaconry, and Southwell Diocese (formerly in Lincoln Diocese).
The Langdale and Berriedale rivers here join and flow into the sea, and there are picturesque gorges, with cave-dwellings and ancient ruins having historic associations.
New industrial areas steadily advanced over the hills and marshes and the typical Nottingham industrial parish- parallel rows of cobblestone streets on either side of the main thoroughfare-came into being.
there is a large fishpond in the vicinity, also a rectangular brick dovecote, now denuded of the ledges and nesting boxes and used as a stable.
When the tide sweeps up the river it automatically closes the gates and the country beyond is saved from flooding.
Some of us still remember the old foot-bridge from the market to the church entrance in Church Lane.
How inhospitable this region was in the Middle Ages is illustrated by the request made by Abbot Redman, commissary-general of the Abbot of Premontre, to be met at Papplewick and escorted safely through Sherwood Forest to Welbeck.
Peter's Square is a comparatively modern name for the area in front of St. Peter's Church and it was first used as far as I know in 1787.
Of the mediaeval bridge there is still an arch dated about 1364, left close to the police station on the Bridgford side of the river.
The burial ground, with its solitary tomb, is now used as a playground, and is one of three burial grounds, in addition to the churchyard and the Cholera Burial Ground in Bath Street, associated with St. Mary's Church.
This tale, Kirke White continues, 'Sheds a fairy lustre on the floods And breathes a mellower gloom upon the woods, This, as the distant cataract swells around.
he left vast estates to his relatives- his possessions in this county including property at East Bridgeford, Marnham, Edwalton, Clifton, Wiverton, Langar, Barnstone, Granby, Colston Bassett, Cropwell Butler, Cropwell Bishop, Tithby, Shelford, and Whatton.
Secondly, as the highest land in the county is under 6oo feet above sea-level, it mostly falls into the Infer-agrarian zone.
At the terminus of this tunnel, the most magnificent riding-house, stables, and timber yards in the kingdom have lately been erected.
Down to 1750 there was a large orchard between Park Row and Mount Street whose upper end was bounded by the Baptist burial ground.
Birmingham, Leeds, Manchester, Sheffield, and Wolverhampton are each less than 70 miles distant.
Leland, in his Itinerary, when at Torksey, notes that 'John Babington dwelleth at Rampton Village over Trent a good mile from Torksey.
In 1741 among his lordship's leading tenants in the parish were Thomas Butler, George Butler, G. Frost, John Lindley, and Saml.
The site is occupied by a pillar post-box near the S.E. corner of Holland & Webb's warehouse.
The next part of the present church in point of date is the fine western tower, an excellent example of the Early English period.
Our King was great above his cowl, A broad hat on his crown, Right as he were abbot-like They rode up in-to the town.
At Hucknall the tory voters were:-John Brough, 1 vote; John Curtis, 3, Nicholas Stone 4, Wm.
But it gradually disappeared, for it furnished a convenient quarry in the Middle Ages for churches, as at Bingham and East Bridgford, and in more recent times for country houses such as Flintham Hall.
When the King's great road from London to the north, which at the Conquest passed through Daybrook and Redhill, began to be deserted because there were few villages on it, the road to the north from Nottingham came to be over Bulwell Forest, and through Papplewick, and Mansfield, and so having the advantage of passing through many places.
but while Lord Zouch remained faithful to Richard and was slain on Bosworth Field, Savage seems to have had a secret understanding with Henry Tudor and joined him on his march through Wales.
IN the days of the Roman occupation of Britain, a great Roman Road, or 'Strada'- Street-ran from Southampton to Derby, Little Chester, Chesterfield, Castleford, Pontefract, to Eboracum, or York: and from it, at Chesterfield, branched out a 'Street' to the Roman Station of Lindum, or Lincoln, which crossed the River Trent at Agelocum, now Littleborough, and the River Idle by a Ford, still used as a watering place for horses, near West Retford Bridge; hence the place would be known as the Street-Ford, or Streteford.
In these gardens the edelweiss, a plant whose flowers Mark Twain contemptuously likens to cigar ashes, grows in small quantities.
This is a survival from 18th century pluralist days, when the parson rode on horseback from village to village, and hitched his horse at the church-door while he conducted the service within.
By Hugh Braun Newark Castle - the Gatehouse, North Tower and part of the River Front.
The new parish, though entirely within the city boundaries, was formed out of the ancient parish of Wilford, and therefore it was styled 'The Parish of St. Faith, North Wilford'.
Such industry requires for efficient working, adequate sites with space for extension, adequate fuel and power supplies, access to road, rail and canals for goods delivery and despatch, proximity to adequate labour resources.
Boats could be hired on the lake in summer and in winter the waters were used by skaters.
Next in age to the Roman roads came the North Road.
Cerialis, the Roman General, then went north of the Fosse Way into Yorkshire, subduing all on the way, and built a fort in the heart of the country of the Brigantes, near York.
towards the Barnby Common Road-built Pelham Bridge- paid the assessment for the poor on new roofing the Church -gave an Organ and a Bell to the Church.
One of this family married Joan of Padley, who being an heiress, brought to her husband the manor and estate of Padley, and other considerable estates in the county of Derby.
Next > Staunton Hall, south front.
The Nottingham Patent Brick Company Limited was established over half a century ago, and has now developed into the largest brick manufacturing firm of the district, with extensive Works at Mapperley Hill, Thorneywood Lane, and Arnold.
Now Wilmot's farm, but the house stood in the middle of the field near High Street, with buildings near the gate, and it was called the Old Hall Farm.
Whilst the Earl was in this disgrace the King made a progress into the north, along with Prince Rupert and the Prince Elector, who were then staying in England, and he remained for several days at Rufford Abbey, hunting in Sherwood Forest.
He was a master-carpenter and cabinet maker by trade, and while his children were still quite young, moved from Grantham to Nottingham.
The Corporation of Nottingham possess extensive estates and are at present erecting the new Exchange Buildings situated in the heart of the shopping centre of the City, bounded by the Great Market Place, Smithy Row, High Street, and Cheapside.
Moore, Crampton & Co., whose huge warehouse is at the corner of Hounds Gate and Spaniel Bow, and their London House is in Cheapside.
Its ground floor was formed by a piazza 17 feet deep which matched the other piazzas round the Market Place.
She left to Mr. Barwick 3/4; to the church of Dunsby 3/4, and to the poor of the same town 3/4.
they will keep it to the death, And the foes are drinking hard in the crimson stream beneath; And down the gray hillside Rupert's Foot is marching in, And echo high the battle-cry, "For God and for the King.
Outside the north wall of the church will be seen what is believed to be the bowl of the Norman font, cast out by the Parliamentarian troopers, and long used in a field as a drinking trough for cattle.
At Clayworth, a mile and a half distant, the parish church was restored in 1875 under the superintendence of Sir Gilbert Scott.
The church, which is dedicated to All Saints, is a small but handsome structure of stone, advantageously situated on a rising ground.
The approach to the hall from this entrance is by a magnificent avenue of lime trees.
BRINSLEY has come down the ages as a small hamlet sequestered amid marsh and waste between Sherwood Forest on its eastern side and the Derbyshire border on its west.
From the steam packet station here, pleasant trips to and from Colwick Park are made during suitable weather, at small cost.
My first step in trying to make good this deficiency was to note that before the conquest the so called old town, i.e., St. Mary's parish,-was ancient demesne, the new town, (a separate manor, later St. Peter's and St. Nicholas' .
I think we are therefore justified in agreeing with Dr. Deering (1751) that the chapel might possibly have given to the ground which is the farthest boundary of the Town to the east beyond the Trent the name of Lady bay (p.
In Godfrey's time there was still a considerable tract of arable land lying between Derby Road and Ilkeston Road.
Between there and the Leen is the district of the old Marsh, where are the railway station, a church mission hall, engine waste works, a laundry, Babbington coal line and wharf (marked by the initials of its founder, Thomas North), council schools, a children's football ground, the canal, the destructor, and the gas works.
Here the tramway for Lenton branches off.
This is the ancient course of an artificial stream, diverted from the waters of Trent, in order to turn the wheel of the Saxon mill, mentioned in Domesday book.
A handsome stone gateway opens on a fine avenue of limes, through which the west front of the house is visible.
In the annals of early Wesleyan Methodism it is recorded that, in 1790, a local preacher named Hanley called at this village, and standing upon a large stone near the Plough public-house, preached to a few people who came to hear him.
The spot where that last sad interview took place is still pointed out, and the spirit of Byron continues to haunt the seclusion of Annesley.
Gilpyngate, 1382 Near river Beck * Glasshouse Lane, 1689 Southwell Road, 1850 Gousegate end, 1630 near to Hockley (in decay) * Goosewong Lane Part of Woodborough Rd.
The first Carthusian monastery was founded by St. Bruno of Cologne in 1086 in the mountains near Grenoble, but he soon left for other work and their Rule was drawn up by a successor named Guigo.
Heathcot & Boden's Lace Factory at Loughborough, at midnight on Friday, June 28th.
Clumber Street has since, in public estimation, occupied a good place as regards business, but would have been much more increased in value if twice sixteen feet had been added to its width.
Some of its field-names proclaim their Saxon origin, but the discoveries of pottery here in 1839 indicated Roman associations, while the cinerary urns found in the 'terrace gravel' at the same time denoted a cremation cemetery dating from the time of the earliest Saxon invasions.
and the upper strata varied greatly, on Pierrepont Road there being found layers of loam, sand, clay, silver sand, etc., but south-eastwardly there were only a few inches of soil over the clay.
But the traffic of the public highway which passes through the village, and beneath a wall which encloses the hall grounds, is neither frequent nor noisy; and if it were both, the principal building in the village would still enjoy comparative privacy.
This road, which for miles forms the boundary between Leicestershire and Lincolnshire, is now for the most part a wide grassy track, undisturbed by any wayfarer; its use in later times having been entirely supplanted by the loop road through Grantham, joining the old Sewstern Lane just outside Long Bennington village.
The 'Dart' to Birmingham, via Castle Donnington and Tamworth.
The National School on Rectory Road was built in 1865, on land given by Mr. J. C. Musters, the lord of the Manor.
The parish of Greasley was, territorially speaking, the largest in the county, being about 20 miles in circumference, and having in one direction and another not less than 9 miles high road.
Coke, of Kerkby Hall, in the county of Nottingham, Esq.
Midland Railway, Forest Street: number employed in and about the Town and Junction Stations, 84 males.
To-day the church consists of nave, chancel, north and south aisles, south porch, tower at west end, and vestry and organ chamber.
Joseph Hunter, in his local work, 'The Deanery of Doncaster,' informs us that the earliest mention of Tickhill Castle was in 1103, thirty-five years after the Conquest of this Mid-England district.
Away to the right the spire of St. Mary Magdalene's Church at Newark rises sharp and bold against the sky, and all about are the fine tall trees-ash, oak, chestnut, elm, and fir-which thickly stud the twenty-five acres of park land that belong to the Kelham estate.
This was accomplished by carrying the road for more than a mile on brick arches, at a cost of  12,000, John Smeaton, the engineer of the Eddystone Lighthouse, having the direction of the work.
The main entrance, under a three-bay portico, is in Burton-street.
The rest of the parks were totally destroyed, both wood, pales, and deer; amongst which was also Clipston Park, of seven miles compass, wherein my lord had taken much delight formerly, it being rich of wood, and containing the greatest and tallest timber trees of all the woods he had; insomuch that only the pale row was valued at  2,000.
The first reference I could find to 'Peters Square' was in Willoughby's rare little Directory of 1799, and my unique plan of Nottingham of 1800, as St. Peter's Square.
Leland, the antiquary, says,  'Half a mile ere I came to Langar I came by Sir John Chaworth's Manor-place called Warton Hall,' and it needs but a glance at the grounds which surround the present mansion to see that it occupies a site which has long been used for residential purposes.
A prominent feature of this church is the fine 15th century tower at the west end of the nave.
We were next taken to the smiths' shops, in which we were shown the latest thing in forges, all fitted with Roots' Patent Blowers, Sinking Platform for wheel tyreing, and a Rubber Tyre Fixing Machine.
A well-arranged Warehouse, for dealing with Fruit, Vegetables, and Potatoes, adjoins Wilford Road; also alarge Warehouse for dealing with cement and other similar traffic.
The demand for more social entertainment saw the Vale Social Club, erected on the opposite side of the road from the Parish Hall, in 1926.
This strange personage took up her abode in the old Portland Farmhouse, at the top of Station Street, and was well remembered by the late Mr. Thomas Widdowson, who was a little boy when the White Lady came to seek shelter in his father's home, after staying a short time at the Weir Farm, Newstead.
The gas works were set up at the bottom of Hollow Stone, and it was found that ten lamps were quite sufficient to illuminate the whole town!
In the mortuary chapel, on the south side of the chancel at Kelham, there is a fine marble monument with the effigies of Lord Lexington and his wife, classically treated and reclining back to back.
The present structure, surrounded by trees, stands in ground rendered sacred by the people having there for eight hundred years buried their dead, and persons dying in Nottingham Park were also buried there.
There is a free Reading Room, and factories for lace-making, jacquard card building, toys, etc. At the bottom of Ilkeston Road there are four public-houses in the space of one hundred yards, and others near by.
It would seem that there were about 1,000 acres of arable land in the parish, about 20 acres of woodland, and about 20 acres of meadow.
The string of villages from Langar (L) to Cotham (C) stands upon the outcrop of the Lias limestone.
His eldest son, who was named Denzil, married Eleanor, daughter of Edmund, Lord Sheffield, and was settled at Irby in Lincolnshire.
Rushcliffe, Bingham, and Newark hundreds being on the right bank, and Broxtowe, Thurgarton, and Bassetlaw on the left, West Bridgford being the boundary parish of Rushcliffe.
A similar pillar yet exists beside the Nottingham and Mansfield road, west of Harlow Wood.
Opposite the Church Institute, leading down to Main Street is Duke Street.
The Shepherd's Race stood on Sneinton Common, formerly Sneinton Wood, by the side of where a street called Thorneywood Mount now is.
From 26th March, 1899, Bulwell became part of the Parish of Nottingham for Poor Law purposes, with a reduction of one-third of the poor rates for five years.
Would it not be possible, with proper sanction, to sell the clay under the footpath in exchange for land, which may some day come in for a useful public purpose, the levelling being left to a time of public distress ?
The church stands between the Hall on the west and the Parsonage and village on the east.
Sherwood Road lies off Kirkby Road, which (from the Staff of Life corner) was originally known as Rice Road.
Perhaps the most beautiful of these staircases is the one in the People's Hall in Heathcote-street, Nottingham, a mansion built by Mr. Charles Morley about 1740-about the time that Mr. Wesley was commencing his public work.
IN spite of the efforts put forward from time to time to arrest the decay of the Archbishop's Palace at Southwell, it has remained little more than a picturesque ruin for more than two centuries and a half.
M.P., first lord high steward of the extended borough.
There is reason to believe that in remote days before our time a toll gate stretched across the entrance to what is now Commercial Road, previously known as Quarry Road, and before that Starr Lane-why 'Starr' I do not know.
Winkburn Hall dates from the late 17th century; the attic storey was added in the late 18th century (photo: Andrew Nicholson, 2003).
and came to the conclusion that Archbishop William Booth (or Bothe) who died in 1464, repaired an old chapel which stood on this site, and that the building of a new chapel was begun by this archbishop's brother and successor, Lawrence Booth, the work being completed after the latter's death in 1480.
Nottingham from London Road, c.
We have not space to devote more than a passing reference to this ecclesiastical dignitary, who was educated at the Mansfield Grammar School (the free school situated in the churchyard) passed on to Trinity College, Cambridge, where he gained a scholarship, and was elected a Fellow of Corpus in 1620.
Although this is a digression, it will lead us to the source from whence the masonry came, for Wollaton is within easy reach of Trowell, and Trowell Moor was the only place in the county where sandstone from the coal-measures was obtained for building purposes in the Middle Ages.
The King's Hall was the County Hall or Shire Hall, and stood on part of the site of the present Shire Hall.
Doorway and hatch in cloister alley Doorway and hatch in cloister alley.
A pretty village on the borders of the far-famed forest of Sherwood is Bilsthorpe, situated at the foot of a hill a few miles from Southwell.
See Tymburhyll) St. Peter's Square, 1787 See Waste Ground Spaniel Row, 1744, and Quaker lane, about 1780 Spaniel Row, 1800 Swynegrene, 1408 Carlton Street, 1802 Tymburhyll, 1407, and Market Place about, 1795 Timber Hill, about 1816, and * South Parade, about 1850 * Tollhouse Hill, 18th Century Lower end of Derby Road * Turncalf Alley, early 18th Century Sussex Street, 1830 Turnbull Street, 1749 Locality uncertain Tynpyn lane, 1353 A garden in Vawte and Vallte lane, 1515-1620 Drury Hill, 1749 Walsete, 1331; Wallessete, 1396 Warsar Gate, 1677 Walleonlane, 1315; Walnenlane Byard Lane, 1633 Waste Ground, 1749 (Deering) St. Peter's Square, 1787 Wheeler Gate.
made a similar grant, giving the monks the right of daily wandering in the hay of Boscwod.
This depended entirely on a good coal supply, and Nottingham had a coal field at its door and coal in its foundations.
JOHN STRAW was in a Hosiery Warehouse.
The wall at the northern end of this was removed to above the other end of the crypt below, and the first floor of the original two-storied structure at the gatehouse end carried over the portion thus taken away from the Hall itself.
Strutt built the Belper Cotton Mills, and his grandson, Lord Helper, made Nottinghamshire his home, and erected a fine Elizabethan mansion at Kingston-on-Soar.
The next building on the main road of any note is on the right, and is known as The Tabernacle (formerly Exeter Hall), and is a Baptist Chapel, with a horse-shoe plan for the tabernacle proper.
Notice particularly the large square monument surmounted by an urn, standing by the path about midway between the porch and the eastern end.
of Wilford, and his son Henry was the founder of the Hospitals, or Almshouses, in Stoney Street, Nottingham, since known as Handley's Hospitals.
In addition to the usual canal boats moved by horse power they maintain and are increasing a large fleet of boats propelled by modern internal combustion engines using crude oil.
The Great Northern Company formerly occupied the London Road Low Level Station, now used by the London and North Western.
This was the boundary of the Parish, which now joins East Retford at Vicker's Shop.
SAMUEL BEAN resided at Cavendish Hill.
In August 1915 three men might have been seen on the Toton estate, near to a small wood of oak trees, and all around peaceful agricultural land.
There was much boat traffic in the Middle Ages on the Trent, and many ferries.
During these times Hucknall saw more change that at any other period in its history as it grew from rural village to industrial town.
Civil War was abroad in the land at the time when this monument was in preparation.
Naturally the hand-frame workers of the villages were placed at a disadvantage and the industry became concentrated in the towns, especially Leicester, Derby, and Nottingham.
For many years the lower part of Millstone Lane has been called Platt Street, from the 'Meadow Platts,' which was the name given to most of the land when unbuilt upon, between what is now Platt Street and Great Alfred Street, and reaching to Carlton Road.
This charter is dated the 19th of July, 1549, and is a grant of the Manor, Rectory, Church and advowson of Winkburn, Mausey Wood containing 88 acres, East Spring Wood 46 acres, Park Wood 26 acres, Coppe Wood 26 acres, the Rectory, Church and advowson of Maplebeck, the advowson of the Church of Calcebye in Lincolnshire and the hamlets of Winkburn, Maplebeck and Calcebye.
Sherwood Street is a continuation of Sheep Lane, which has now been modernised into Market Street, and it passed through the sand fields or Sheep Walk of the town.
The wall inside the south porch is also apparently a remnant of Early English work; the doorway has a pointed arch on the outer side and a semi-circular arch within.
Sherwood Forest occupied the central and western part of Nottinghamshire, covering, in the Middle Ages, more than a quarter of the area of the county as against the mere twentieth of forest existing today.
The advent of the Great Central Railway and the consequent alteration of the run of the railway lines through Nottingham did a great deal of good, but in their passage through the terrible area about Narrow Marsh they destroyed Tanners Hall Court.
To turn to this church of St. Lawrence in which we now are, you will notice it is a cruciform building with a clear-storied nave of four bays having north and south aisles, a chancel, north and south transepts, a western tower, and a porch.
Parnell was imprisoned at Colchester, chained to a bar of wood, and taken eighteen miles through the country  'as a sport, or gazing stock.
Eastward lies Lincoln, with its superb minster, the towers of which are visible from here on a clear day; westward are the sturdy oaks, delicate silver birches, and dark pines of Sherwood Forest, and further away you may see the hills of Derbyshire.
It was a narrow strip of land on the North Side of The White House Inn, where the two houses, Rose Villa and Grove Leigh now stand.
The kitchens and outbuildings would still be built of wood; the whole surrounded by stone walls and a moat, over which was thrown a drawbridge defended by a barbican tower and gateway.
From this fact it may be inferred that the present tower stands on the lines of a pre-Norman building which consisted of an oblong nave, a square chancel, and a low tower set in the midst, after the well-known manner of pre-Norman churches, and this primitive plan formed the nucleus around which developments were added through consecutive centuries, until the simple parallelogram grew into a cross.
THE large industrial village of Selston has been a coal-mining centre since at least the early part of the 14th century, but its history goes centuries further back than that.
The Major Oak or Queen Oak which stands half a mile north of Edwinstowe is in the Bilhagh area and the Parliament Oak, stands just south of the Birklands area, near to the Edwinstowe and Mansfield Road.
The result was that he built in Stewart Place, Alfred Street about fifty medium sized houses each having a garden in front and an enclosed back yard.
a good brick building, thirty-five yards by fifteen, in the north end of which is a stone, with the following inscription:
Thoresby Hall soon comes in sight, a building of Elizabethan design, erected by the third Earl Manvers, 1864-71.
Regarding the last term, it is supposed that coal from Newcastle was carried southward by water long before it was worked inland, and so acquired the name of sea coal, or sea-borne coal.
Scrooby is described in a guide to the county, edited by the late A. E. Lawson Lowe, as being a pleasant village situated on the banks of the river Ryton, nearly three miles to the north-east of Blyth.
Till 1873 the north transept was bounded on the east by a brick wall, and it was only on its being taken down to build the present chantry, that it was discovered that this wall concealed two arches and the pillar which supports them.
For ecclesiastical purposes the parish is divided by a line running chiefly east and west, the southern part belonging to St. Paul's, Daybrook.
Steady into the little valley, then up the hill between these straight well-grown limes, round the curves we swing until we enter Clumber Park, about eleven miles in circumference and having an area of nearly 4,000 acres.
A tall tower watching o'er the widespread plain, And seen from Charnwood's hills and Belvoir's heights, The crafty Gloucester built, and here again He longed for daylight after sleepless nights.
The boundary mark, dated 1869, is at the foot of the Castle rock, between the four messuages and Collins' houses.
Excavation carried out recently seems to point to the fact that Greasley was a square enclosure consisting of angle towers joined together by curtain walls, the whole being surrounded by a moat.
The Belvoir woods, much more extensive than now, began two hundred yards or so from the walls enclosing the grounds.
No one ever heard of coaches passing along the old 'Stone Street,' and it is doubtful whether its line was ever provided with a gate or postern in the north, or 13th century, town wall.
LINBY - has been interpreted as signifying 'the dwelling by the lyn, or deep pool' and also 'the dwelling by the lime trees.
Vale of Belvoir from Green Hill near Wartnaby (Plain formed by Lower Lias Clays and Limestones).
NOTE ON CHURCH EXTENSION IN THE PARISH OF LENTON.
Here the handsome little vestry, built on the south side of the church, is of this date, and other traces of Perpendicular work are to be noticed in the towers at Linby.
Haughton Park containing about 900 acres, the greater part in the parish of Bothamsall, is now completely dis-parked, enclosed and divided into farms.
A fresh green fringe of mountain-ash, holly, and hazel, running along and waving over its uppermost borders, and a pure blue arch of sky thrown over from one side to the other!
The pike and the perch thrive in its deep waters, and the coot rears her young in the thick growth which fringes its margin.
The same mournful ceremony was observed in all the ports of England and Ireland; and not only in these, for the flag was half-mast high on every British ship at Antwerp, at Rotterdam, at Havre.
The west front has battled parapets, and a great square tower from which the Duke may display his banner, while the east front, rising from a broad terrace over the lawns towards the lake, has a gabled roof.
The monks' fish-pond can be seen, from which was fished up the brass lectern, now in Southwell Cathedral, a most interesting relic of the past.
The Magnesian Limestone yields an excellent building-stone, especially around Mansfield, where it contains much sandy material.
and William Webster for cuttinge downe greene maples & thornes thereand Bryan Gray and Huntingdon Eyre for not scoweringe the beck ditch in theire close (x^d.
This priory was founded in 1088 in the village of Blyth on the north-west side of the county, for Benedictine monks, by Roger de Builli, one of William the Conqueror's followers.
The church stands about eighty yards eastward of the castle.
Twenty miles from Nottingham, Midland or Great Northern.
Newdigate House, in Castle Gate-known also as Marshal Tallard's house, from the fact that the French General lived there on parole, after his defeat by the Duke of Marlborough at the battle of Blenheim in 1704-was built a little later in time, than the house last described.
The Arms of Lenton Priory are still to be seen at the apex of the roof of Beeston Church at the east end.
For the County Council the eastern side of the parish returns one member, and the western side, along with Bestwood and Papplewick, another.
An hour was allowed for luncheon at the Public Hall, after which a start was made for South Scarle, the road thither passing by the old stone-stepped village cross, which stands by the side of the main street of Collingham.
Traffic from the market had to find its way down Wheeler Gate, then along St. Peter's Church Side, take a sharp turn to the right and so into Low Pavement and Lister Gate.
The shop now occupied by Councillor G. Stevenson at the junction of New Street and King Street was built by the late Mr. R. Littlewood in 1838.
His sisters, the Misses FRANCES, CHARLOTTE, and ANNE, who lived in the house opposite to the Church, and died at advanced ages, were full of alms-deeds and good works.
First cotton mill in the world built at Nottingham, in a passage called Mill Street, leading into Wollaton Street, by Hargreaves, of which a portion still remains.
The idea of the Temple was taken from Palladio's celebrated Villa Capra, near Vicenza in Italy, of which I can show you a photograph, and three other houses in England are built on the same model:- Chiswick House in Middlesex, Footscray Place and Mereworth Castle, both in Kent.
The land was given by the Pearson Gregory family who made many generous benefactions for church work in the town.
Godfrey suggests that the tomb is that of John de Langton, who left directions in his will, dated Christmas, 1345, that he should be buried 'in the churchyard.
or plows in demesne and five sochman, on three bovats of this land, and thirty-five villains; twenty bordars with nineteen car, and a half, one mill, one piscary; twenty-four acres of meadow, pasture wood two leu.
Dick Turpin, the famous outlaw, is said to have found shelter in a cottage in this village.
Under glass, within the kitchen garden enclosure, the grape, the nectarine, and the peach, are cultivated in large quantities, and on each side of one of the broad gravel walks, within the substantial brick walls which enclose the garden space, there is a growth of old-fashioned flowers, which fill the air with the scent of innumerable cottage gardens, and charm the eye with variety of familiar colour.
This detour will occupy about two hours (or more) of the time of visitors.
There was a church here in King Stephen's time, which was given to the prior and convent of Shelford by Ralph Alselin, the Norman lord of Laxton, and founder of Shelford Priory.
The Boer War in South Africa provided us with Mafeking Terrace and Ladysmith Road.
Nottingham was well situated for the supply of barley from the Vale of Belvoir, and the water of the town was found to be good for brewing.
On his deathbed this Gilbert granted Rufford to a colony of Cistercian monks from Rievaulx.
A few days after this interview Lord George returned to Welbeck.
St Peter, Sibthorpe St Peter, Sibthorpe, has a 13th century tower, 18th century nave and a 14th century chancel (built in connection with the foundation of a college of priests in 1335.
This accident supplies us with the means of ascertaining the depth of the ditch outside the castle walls eastward.
There was also an engine house with a 32 horse-power steam engine, a dye house, blacksmiths' shops, a children's kitchen and dining room, a sorting room, two dormitories, wool store rooms, hand combing and drying-rooms, an agent's house, 18 dwelling houses, a large kitchen garden, and a coach yard with stabling for seven horses.
In this Park is a mineral spring, which restores some persons to their health, but do's not agree with me, nor any other steel waters.
This splendid example of medieval metal work now has an honoured and appropriate place as the lectern of Southwell Minster, the grand old Norman Church which lies not many miles across country from Newstead.
When the length and breadth of the land was parcelled out among the followers of the Norman Conqueror, Markham was given to Roger de Busli, the list of whose lands in this county covers more than five pages of Doomesday Book.
And we must not forget Lenton Priory-lying on the low ground of the river about two miles from Nottingham on the way to Derby.
General French, 1st Earl of Ypres, lived at the Hall for some years when a Captain in the 19th Hussars, and kept a large stable of hunters.
A wide gateway, having porter's lodge attached, gave entrance at the south-eastern corner of the outer court or 'barmkin.
On the south side of the chancel wall the following inscription appears on a slab:-
Just in front of the cottage ran the brook (river Idle) with its constant stream of pure water, horse cress and yellow bulbs (blobs they were called) growing all along its course, while crimson-breasted stickle-backs, fresh water shrimps and fish called 'bullheads' abounded.
Dunham was a large Manor, and included the following districts:- Dunham, Ragnall, East Markham, East Drayton, Headon, Upton, Little Gringley, Ordsall, Thrumpton, and Whitehouses.
Near the park-gate of Haughton was erected, in 1692, a free school, for the benefit of those of this place, Bothamsall, Elksey, Gamston, West Drayton, Milton, and Bevercotes.
Hollow Stone, hewn out of the rock on both sides, presents itself as a later duplicate of this scaling of the rock at Malin Hill: Bellar Gate, stopping short in Barker Gate, the ancient street-line through the earthworks of the town, would give an alternative route to Stoney Street.
Thrumpton Chapel, in the same parish, went to Norton 12, John (1211).
At Dog Kennel Hill there are caves on each side of the road, and a footpath turns off to Mapperley, the cart road being up Red Lane (Redcliffe Road).
Stirling) became the missionary Bishop of the Falkland Isles where he had many adventures, living to the ripe age of ninety-five.
William Cavendish had continued in this office and was being rapidly enriched by receiving numerous grants of abbey lands in Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire, Dorset, and other counties.
Amongst other things is a Roman altar found in the Trent at Littleborough on his estate there, where the Roman road from Lincoln to Doncaster crossed that river.
IN my third paper some attention was given to matters relating to the land included in the block between Broad Lane (Broad Street) on the east and Cow Lane (Clumber Street) on the west.
From Trent Bridge we may take a penny tram direct to the Market, along Arkwright Street, or may walk along the old London Road, passing the Cattle Market, the Eastcroft Sanitary Wharf, the London Road Railway Stations, all on our right hand.
The commissioners report that from their view on the 15th of January, 1532, there were in Clipston sproggs, 310 red deer, of which 70 were deer of antler; in Clipston Park 100 fallow deer, of which 25 were deer of antler.
By this method the sewage passed through four tanks (each holding 45,000 gallons), thence it ran over bacteria beds.
Tunnel entrance at Welbeck Abbey.
The northern part of the enclosed area was a grass field, which in the middle ages was made historic as a camp, in the midst of which King Charles I. raised his standard in 1642, and ventured his all on the fitful chance of war.
General view of the ruin from the north-west.
IN 1330, Roger Mortimer and Queen Isabella took refuge in Nottingham Castle, where they lived together flaunting all decorum and allocating to themselves regal powers to which they had no right.
and Forest Street; and Wall Boxes at West End, Hucknall Road, New Cross Post Office (Mr.
A further ascent of twenty-three steps, and the tower roof is reached whence a splendid panorama of the surrounding country may be obtained-Southwell, Newark, and no fewer than twenty village churches come within the view, while, if the day is clear, the towers of Lincoln Cathedral may be discerned on the eastern horizon.
An outcrop occurs at the southern limit of the Carboniferous system, where the road crosses a dip in the land a little to eastward of Trowell Church.
A warehouse and Drying Houses were on the right-hand side of the bridge).
Narrow Marsh formed, together with its back land and the street accommodating those lands, the southern outskirt of Nottingham before the enclosure of the last generation.
Turning towards the market, we come to a short, narrow street, Chapel Bar, at the head of which stood a Gate in the old town wall.
The road from the marketplace, is directly south, past Peters church, down Lister gate and Greyfriar's-gate, past the water-works, engine-house, and over the canal bridge, into the meadows, and following the path, in the third field you will come to the river Trent, over which is a ferry boat, which will carry you across for one half.
The building known as the Shire Hall or King's Hall; and (2) Two houses adjoining it, on the west, belonging to Mr. John Boun, one of which he gave to the county, and the other he sold to Sir Thomas Hutchinson.
John o' Groat's is forty-five miles distant, but this, as well as other places of interest in the neighbourhood, is within visiting range by the cars, though such long distances were not attempted with the equine species.
In due time the monastic buildings were commenced-the habitation of the prior and his brethren, and again in due time the erection of their great church, of which this is the western limb, was taken in hand.
The Trent, near Cromwell.
Greendale Oak' - the 'Methuselah of trees - unquestionably the most remarkable tree in this fine domain.
The north range of the cloisters was used by the monks for work during the day, as it faced south and was rather warmer than the others.
Among the common wells of old Nottingham, numbering more than a dozen, was the Weekday Market Well.
Before crossing the bridge, visitors should view the prospect afforded by water, landscape, and town.
when John de Lungvillers had two messuages, half a carucate of land, ten acres of meadow, and two water-mills, which he held by the service of a rose; and possibly the present mill stands on the site of one of those existing even before his time.
On page 82 he refers to a singular circumstance in relation to the tanyards in Narrow Marsh during a severe attack of plague, 'which visited this town in 1667, and made a cruel Desolation in the higher part of Nottingham; for very few died in the lower, especially in a street called the Narrow-Marsh, it was observed that the infection had no power; and that during the whole Time the Plague raged, not one who lived in that Street died of it, which induced many of the richer sort of people to crowd thither, and hire Lodgings at any price; the preservation of the People was attributed to the Effluvia of the Tanners Ouze (for there were 47 Tanyards in that place) besides which they caused Smoak to be made by burning moist Tanners Knobs.
There is no portion of this Anglo-Saxon church left here at Tickhill, but at Laughton two miles beyond the lake at Roche Abbey, a good deal of Primitive Romanesque work is still to be seen.
Approaching from the NORTH, the Great Central Line enters the City boundary at Bulwell, then come the suburban stations of Bulwell Common (for Golf Links), Haydn Road, and Carrington.
p for the sum of  19,258 The southern boundary of this land was Alfreton Road, and the eastern boundary the road from the Cinder Hill toll gate to Bulwell.
The clay at that time was got from where the council houses are built in Hempshill Lane.
From the top there is a fine view of Lincoln Cathedral and the surrounding country.
Forest Fields was, after the Inclosure, until about 1880, agricultural fields, when it became chiefly under the ownership of Sir Thomas Birkin, and has since been developed as a building estate, with many good houses.
Bentinck, Duke of Portland A chapter from W P W Phillimore's County Pedigrees book, containing detailed information on the Bentinck family whose seat is still at Welbeck Abbey, including the reclusive 5th Duke of Portland famous for his tunnels under the house and estate.
Before this time the organ had been in the gallery at the west end of the Church.
Bunny Hall in the early 20th century The south front of Bunny Hall in the early 20th century.
At Lincoln Cathedral and the Doge's Palace, Venice.
Thomas Adams, of Lenton Firs, born at Worksop in 1807, became a foremost lace merchant of Nottingham.
Charles Hutchinson, brother of John, acquired the house from Lucy Hutchinson, and took up his residence here.
It terminated in Sneinton Street which was formerly called Newark Lane and has an easterly branch which we call Southwell Road but which was originally called Glass-House Street.
The building was enlarged in 1874 and a somewhat elaborate front of Bulwell stone was set up facing north.
When the Royal Archaeological Institute visited Nottingham in 1901, a paper on Wollaton Hall was read by J. A. Gotch, Esq.
he was created a Knight of the Bath, and enriched by the grant of several manors in this county.
The Bridge over the Idle went straight through the Mill, with buildings on each side and came out into High Street towards the School.
Boatswain's monument, with its sublime epitaph, occupies a familiar spot in the quiet, shady gardens; the shrubbery known as 'the Monks' Garden 'is allowed to flourish undisturbed; the deep, smooth pond, with it emerald framework, is still fed by springs which are never dry; the 'Devil's Wood' remains one of the darker glories of the grounds; and the Stew Pond, shaded by spreading yews of sturdy growth; the Monks' Well, with its sweet crystal water; and the great lake, where Mr. Webb casts his flies, give the charm of water to the grounds.
At one end of the kitchen gardens a broad high wall of stone, with a carriage entrance, has just been built.
The most easterly being Alfreton Road, the centre road being Ilkeston Road and the western one being Derby Road.
Welbeck Abbey was situated in the heart of Sherwood Forest, in a more lonely spot than its neighbour Rufford Abbey as it was further from the main road.
Newdigate House on Castle Gate (A Nicholson, 2001).
One, Swayfield, was in Lincolnshire, south of Grantham; and a group of five, Blankney, Potter Hanworth, Kirkby Green, Scopwick and Timberland, lay between Lincoln and Sleaford.
An immense volume of water also came over from the Cheshire plain, so that the river and its tributaries were much larger and more powerful than the present stream, which is unable to lift and spread gravel over its flood plain.
Here, then, we have conclusive evidence as to the universal consumption ot coal in the county town bv the first half of the 17th century, apparently by rich and poor alike, with notice of a daily house-to- house supply.
At this part there was a field or gardens between the road at Hyson Green and the Forest, which still reached more westwardly than at present.
The High Cross was not a market-cross, but stood far outside the ancient town, at the northern apex of the premises of St. Leonard's Leper Hospital, which were bounded by the lines of Woodborough Road, Mansfield Road, and Huntingdon Street.
Beyond this, it became a three grained fork; each more or less a township, manor, or parish boundary.
The old Vicarage house was a straggling dilapidated building which adjoined the east side of the Priory Gatehouse.
In the 13th century the church was enlarged by the addition of a south aisle, marked by the pointed arch and Early English water-mould in the bases of the columns.
The Great Central Railway in 1897 constructed its line through the parish and valley, with its bridge over the Victoria Embankment, and the Trent, on a high level, having flood arches, and road bridges, with sidings to the Colliery, and to the Brick Yard, but without a station.
Originally the cliff extended from the top of Short Hill to Scotland Place and then gradually died out behind the houses facing on to the northern side of Carter Gate.
He accepted this as the Harby of the queen's death, and built upon it the theory that the king and queen on their progress north, being at Northampton late in August, were soon after parted, the queen going direct to Harby, in our county, and the king joining her there on September 11th.
In a house on the south side of the Meat Market was born HENRY KIRKE WHITE, the Nottingham Poet.
It is said that a new Eland Hall was erected in Basford, in Colonel Hutchinson's time, to the north of the church.
Even now, it is difficult to picture the ancient demesne as it once stood, hemmed in by a loop of the silvery Trent on the south, and with its deer-park stretching away beyond the wooded hill to the north.
The altitude is 260 feet above sea level near to Bulwell Wood, and 143 in the lower part of the Leen Valley.
If the house stood on the south side of the street and faced the north, it had a garden in the rear; but if the other way about, then a plot of land on the opposite side of the street formed the garden or "vista.
Mayflower in Plymouth Harbor,' by William Halsall (1882).
JOHN CLARKE, M.A., Rector of Cotgrave, in 1602, was ejected under the Act of Uniformity, and settled in Basford.
At Scrooby, in the northern part of the county, was formed the first Independent Congregation in the country, whose leader was John Robinson, M.A., of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, called the 'Father of English Independency.
The erection is, however, though the stranger would not suspect it, in the county of Nottingham, being built on what is called Standard-hill, the place where the unfortunate Charles I. planted his standard, in August, 1642.
But Wilford Ferry gave us Lister Gate, the street of the dyers, the lower half of which became 'Greyfriars Gate' after those particular friars obtained a footing in the town; and the upper half extended north to the oldest thoroughfare, Pepper Street, there by way of Wheeler Gate obtaining access to the Great or Saturday Market.
Joseph Carr, engraver, Hounds Gate, Nottingham, visited this place for the first time to witness the funeral of Lady Byron (mother of the much-lamented Lord Byron), August 9th, 1811, whose coffin-plate I engraved, and I now once more re-visit the spot to drop a tear as a tribute of unfeigned respect to the mortal remains of that noble British bard.
The hall is really in the village, and some two hundred yards of gravel road, flanked by horse chestnuts and other tall trees, bring one within its precincts.
In 1301, 2 five roods of arable land in the fields of Nottingham, extending from the King's highway from Radeford towards Nottingham as far as Lingedale, was sold.
On Chapman's Survey, 1774, three mills are marked in Lenton along the course of the Leen ; one in Radford Marsh, one at the place where Derby Road crossed the Leen, and one lower down the river towards the Priory site.
On the south side of the church there was a small cloister (Plate V.) bounded on the west by the line of buildings which formed also the eastern side of the great cloister.
Northern Italy to Sicily direct sleeper trains culled...
Rockhampton-Longreach & Cairns-Forsayth lines
Lille Europe is a modern glass-and-steel station with four platforms straddling the London-Paris/Brussels high-speed line.
On board ICE 3 (routes include Brussels-Cologne-Frankfurt, Amsterdam-Cologne-Frankfurt, Paris-Frankfurt, Cologne-Munich)
Opened in 1909, it was one of the most famous hotels in the middle east, used by Agatha Christie, Roosevelt, Mutafa Kemal Attaturk, Lindbergh and T. E. Lawrence.
Through Southern Italy & across on the train ferry to Sicily...
Brisbane-Rockhampton-Townsville-Cairns & other routes in Queensland.
The Europe/Asia border obelisk
Train travel in Asia, Africa, America, Australasia...
Whistler service cars arrived at Whistler.
As well as public toilets, other facilities include: * Europe's longest champagne bar: Before checking-in for your train to Paris, you can raise a toast to your journey at Europe's longest champagne bar, 96 metres long and on the upper level underneath the magnificent glass-and-steel trainshed.
Train: (in Dover, take bus or taxi from Eastern Docks to Dover Priory station) Dover Priory depart 13:24 13:56 16:56 19:55 13:24 14:24 17:24 21:24 17:24 21:24 London Charing Cross arrive 15:22 15:52 18:52 21:52 15:22 16:24 19:22 23:23 19:22 23:23
Eurostar City 'Frecciabianca' Various including Milan-Verona-Venice, Milan-Bologna-Bari-Brindisi.
River next to the Highland Line Passing Druimuachdar Summit on the Highland Line
The Silk Route by train: Western Europe-Moscow-Central Asia-Beijing
Wild & remote highland scenery on the Perth to Inverness 'Highland Line'.
The Toronto-Vancouver 'Canadian': Skyline dome car The Toronto-Vancouver 'Canadian' at Jasper
Sadly, Rail Europe announced in October that they will not be running their French Motorail service from Calais to southern France in summer 2010.
London-Brussels/Paris-Budapest-Belgrade-Sofia-Istanbul The alternative route via Serbia.
Steam train at Port Erin Port Erin, Isle of Man A steam train at Port Erin station.
London-Budapest by Eurostar to Paris, City Night Line sleeper to Munich, RailJet to Budapest: Fast & time-effective route.
Buy Japan Rail Pass in Europe, Africa or Asia
First book Paris-Hendaye & back.
Save the Waterford-Rosslare line...
The train departs from the Guangzhou main Station, the taxi ride from Guangzhou East Station to the main station costs about RMB 30.
Zone E: London, anywhere in Scotland, Tyne & Wear, Durham, Cleveland, Northumberland, Greater London, Surrey, Norfolk, Suffolk, Essex, Kent, East Sussex, West Sussex, Hampshire, Dorset, Somerset, Devon, Cornwall.
The fare includes entry to the Wild West show at Williams station in the hour before departure, and some Wild West entertainment on board!
Europe to South America by sea...
Mexico used to have a good train service linking all major cities, using restaurant cars, sleeping-cars and observation cars, many inherited from the USA.
Douglas' Victorian promenade, looking south from the Manx Electric Railway station towards the Sea Terminal.
Overland to India: Western Europe-Istanbul-Iran-Pakistan-India
The Amsterdam-Cologne-Vienna City Night Line sleeper is cut back to Cologne-Vienna, and becomes an Austrian EuroNight train rather than City Night Line.
Italy Sardinia Tirrenia Lines Livorno / Genoa -
Routes include Portsmouth-St Malo, Portsmouth-Caen (Ouistreham), Portsmouth-Le Havre & Poole-Cherbourg.
Above: Kissing the Blarney Stone, on the upper battlements at Blarney Castle, southern Ireland, supposedly giving you the gift of eloquence...
If you're starting in mainland Europe, the best place to pick up the Iceland ferry is in Denmark.
It departed absolutely on time from Lhasa and arrived at Beijing's West Station on time two nights later.
The Thomas Cook Rail Map of Europe is easily the best map of European train routes that there is, showing rail routes from Portugal in the west to Ukraine in the east, Finland in the north to Sicily in the south.
Every night except Saturday night, Caledonian Sleeper trains leave towns & cities all over Scotland, direct to central London arriving in time for breakfast.
UK zone A: Any station in the Glasgow area, Strathclyde, Dumfries & Galloway UK zone B: Any station in the Edinburgh area, Lothian, Borders UK zone C: Any station in Fife; UK zone D: Tayside; UK zone E: Inverness & Highlands; Zone F: Grampian UK zone G: Any station in Cumbria UK zone H: Any station in Lancashire, Greater Manchester, Merseyside.
Alternatively, the Madrid metro (www.metromadrid.es) links Atocha station, Madrid city centre and Chamartin station, though this takes longer.
Loreley Rock, Rhine Valley View from the top of Cologne cathedral tower.
The Thomas Cook Rail Map of Europe is easily the best map of European train routes that there is, showing rail routes from Portugal in the west to Ukraine in the east, Finland in the north to Sicily in the south.
Japan Japan National Railways, JR For a rail timetable in English visit dia.com (the English button is upper left).
Nairobi station has a good station buffet 'platform side' operated by Rift Valley Railways open all day (even when trains aren't running) serving good quality cheap food.
Scotland to Amsterdam...
The fare covers train+ferry+train travel from London or any NX East Anglia station (including Peterborough, Cambridge, Norwich, Colchester, Romford) to Amsterdam or any Dutch station (including Rotterdam, Den Haag, Leiden, Arnhem, Utrecht, Groningen, Maastricht).
Whistler station is in the Creekside area of Whistler between Alta and Nita lakes, a few minutes' taxi or motor coach transfer from Whistler village itself.
Thanks to high track access charges levied by Belgian Railways, German Railways (who own & operate City Night Line sleeper trains) have diverted their Paris-Berlin service to avoid Belgium.
The track went across high embankments and on ledges on valley sides.
A few scenic tourist trains in Switzerland require a seat reservation & supplement, including the famous Glacier Express & Bernina Express.
London-Istanbul-Damascus-Amman-Petra by train
Direct Russian sleeper trains link Moscow with Warsaw, Berlin, Cologne, Amsterdam, Paris, Prague, Nice, Helsinki and many other European cities.
UK to North Africa, Cyprus, Malta, Egypt, Israel...
City Night Line is the brand name for German Railways' sleeper services crossing Germany between The Netherlands, Switzerland, Germany, Denmark, Austria & Prague.
Option 3: London-Budapest via the Cologne-Vienna sleeper...
The Queen Mary 2 is no mere 'cruise ship', but a real ocean liner built with the extra strength & power to withstand the rigours of the North Atlantic in all weathers.
On board the City Night Line sleeper from Paris to Munich...
London to Granada, Almeria, Murcia, Ronda, Algeciras, Cadiz, Jerez, Huelva
Direct Paris-Innsbruck sleeper on winter Fridays!
Step 3, transfer to Dublin city centre: Dublin Ferryport is 2 miles from Dublin city centre.
Rainwater falling east of the divide flows to the Atlantic, rainwater falling to the west makes its way to the Pacific.
T'oz trains: These run on routes such as Paris-Limoges-Toulouse, Bordeaux-Toulouse-Marseille-Nice.
Transport Scotland's consultation document asked about the future of the Caledonian Sleeper service linking Scotland with London.
London to Ancona, Bari, Brindisi, Lecce
London to Tarragona, Salou, Valencia, Zaragoza
Car-carrying trains within Italy: Motorail trains carrying passengers' cars operate on many routes within Italy, including Bologna-Catania (Sicily) daily year-round, Turin-Bari weekly in winter and daily in summer, Bolzano-Bari weekly year-round, Rome-Sicily several times a week, and many summer-only routes.
London to Scotland by Caledonian Sleeper
London - Scotland by Caledonian Sleeper
Whistler service seating on the Vancouver-Whistler train Whistler Service cars at Whistler station on the train from Vancouver
Above: The London-Fort William 'Caledonian Sleeper' crossing windswept Rannoch Moor...
to Vienna, Copenhagen, Prague:
Glacier Express in the Rhine Gorge
Glacier Express running through the Rhine Gorge...
The Trans-Asia Express arrives at Tatvan where passengers transfer to the ferry across Lake Van.
Left luggage facilities in Paris & Madrid.
Left luggage facilities in Paris & Italy
Alternative London-Madrid train service Left luggage in Paris & Madrid
West Country or South Coast to mainland Europe: If you live in the West Country or along the South Coast, you may prefer taking a ferry direct to France, then a train to Paris.
Routes include London to & from Liverpool, Runcorn, Sheffield, Nottingham, Loughborough, Coventry, Birmingham, Bath, Exeter, Salisbury, Portsmouth, Southampton, Bournemouth, Poole, Weymouth.
Edinburgh, Glasgow & Perth to Inverness over the Highland Line (a few photos here).
London to Granada, Almeria, Murcia, Cartagena, Ronda, Algeciras
The Geneva-Milan route runs along Lake Leman, and both Geneva-Milan and Basel-Milan routes pass Lake Maggiore in Italy.
London to Scotland by sleeper...
The actual Direct Orient Express starts in Paris with a few through cars from Calais.
Brussels Midi station: Eurostar arrives at platforms 1 & 2 at the main Brussels station, Bruxelles Midi in French, Brussel Zuid in Flemish, Brussels South Stn in English, it's all the same place.
Local ferry from Mallaig to Inverie, on the Knoydart peninsula: www.knoydart-ferry.co.uk.
For overnight sleeper service between London, Paris & Munich, see above.
Delhi Junction station is in central old Delhi.
Book a London-Brussels return ticket at www.eurostar.com; then buy a Brussels-Amsterdam ticket at Brussels station, no reservation necessary.
Europe to Japan by Trans-Siberian railway
Europe to Australia by Trans-Siberian Railway...
Routes where only a 2nd class ticket is now needed for a 2-bed sleeper include Paris-Munich (and all other City Night Line routes) Prague-Krakow, Budapest-Bucharest, Bucharest-Istanbul, Munich-Budapest.
In addition, the Arlberg Orient Express loses its Paris-Budapest and Paris-Bucharest sleepers, and becomes plain 'Arlberg Express' running Paris-Zurich-Innsbruck-Vienna.
London-Cologne starts at '97 return, Cologne-Berlin-Prague starts at 39 euros ('35) each way.
The entrance is on the port (left-hand) side of the ship on deck 12, accessed via 'A' stairway.
High-speed service due to start in 2015: French-built double-deck TGV Duplex trains running at up to 320 km/h are due to link Tangier & Casablanca in just 2 hours 10 minutes when Africa's first high-speed line opens in 2015.
Woodlands is about 13 miles north of Singapore city.
Scotland & the North of England to Budapest via ferry
Stockholm to Amsterdam, Cologne, Prague, Switzerland, Italy
Budapest to Italy: Milan, Venice, Florence, Rome...
Prague to Italy: Milan, Venice, Florence, Rome...
London to Pisa, Siena, Lucca, Modena, Ravenna
London to Pompeii, Sorrento, Capri, Ischia, Elba
London to Rimini, Ancona, Pescara, Bari, Brindisi
Southern or western Turkey to Athens by ferry...
Colombo Fort railway station A train at Colombo Fort station Two views of Colombo Fort Station.
A Tirrenia Line ship arrives in Sardinia...
London to Turin, Milan, Verona, Venice, Bologna, Florence, Rome & Naples
Inside Singapore railway station looking north
London Liverpool Street has a left luggage office near platform 10, handy if you're leaving or arriving on the Dutch Flyer train & ferry service to Hoek van Holland & Amsterdam.
The Trans-Asia Express in Eastern Turkey....
Map of Amsterdam Left luggage in London & Amsterdam
Hershey train at Havana Casablanca station, Cuba Hershey train at Hershey station Above: Hershey electric train at Havana's Casablanca station.
This is only 3 minutes walk from Trieste Centrale station (walk back a few yards along the tram tracks, then turn left).
Europe to Australia by sea...
A sort of miniature Grand Canyon Swiss-style, the train snakes along the rock-strewn river between the steep valley sides which are dotted here and there with caves.
Eventually we swept round to the left, bringing into focus the bullet hole-ridden tower blocks of western Sarajevo.
Clay pigeon shooting during an off-train excursion near Aviemore Dalwhinnie whisky distillery Johnston's woollen mill, Elgin.
For Sligo, take the daily 19:05 train from Dublin Connolly station arriving Sligo at 22:05.
Scotland & North of England to Copenhagen, avoiding London
Scotland & North of England to Poland avoiding London
London-Paris-Ancona or Brindisi-ferry-Turkey An alternative route by ferry from Italy.
Which British station is in which zone?
Scotland, north of England & East Anglia to Europe...
TGVs run direct from Lille to Lyon, Avignon, Marseille, Cannes, Nice, Bordeaux, N'mes, Montpellier, Narbonne, Perpignan, Le Mans, Rennes, Nantes, Strasbourg & Toulouse.
London, Bristol, Cardiff to Rosslare, Wexford & Waterford via the Fishguard-Rosslare ferry.
The Toronto-Vancouver 'Canadian' at Jasper
In Matanzas, the Hershey railway station is about 2km from Matanzas mainline station.
Grimaldi Lines (once weekly Salerno-Malta): www.grimaldi-lines.com
to Cork, Limerick, Galway, Sligo, Tralee
Butterworth station The International Express from Bangkok, arrived at Butterworth Butterworth station: Walking off the end of the platforms at Butterworth, towards the ferry...
Britain's most scenic railway: The West Highland Line
You leave Madrid Atocha station at 15:05, arriving Algeciras at 20:15.
T'oz trains: These run on routes such as Paris-Limoges-Toulouse, Bordeaux-Toulouse-Marseille-Nice.
Dunedin station Inside Dunedin station's main hall...
The Madrid-Seville high speed line is very scenic, as it passes directly through the mountains which are by-passed by the more roundabout conventional line.
One of Rocky Mountaineer's double-deck Gold Leaf dome cars Upstairs, Gold Leaf seating under the glass dome
The Coastal Pacific stops at Kaikoura, the South Island's whale-watching and dolphin-swimming centre...
Shuttle bus into Dublin city centre.
The famous Thomas Cook Overseas Timetable has train, bus and ferry times for Cuba and every other country in North and South America, Asia, Africa, and Australasia.
After turning around, the Queen Mary 2 heads downstream into the Solent, heading directly towards Cowes on the Isle of Wight before making a tight turn to port (left) in the deep water channel, passing Ryde to starboard (right) and Portsmouth to port.
New high-speed service: The opening of the new Ankara-Konya high-speed line in Spring 2011 will also benefit Istanbul-Konya passengers.
On the other hand, if I were an American heading for Europe, I might well be tempted to head out by sea eastbound, returning west by air.
This is in the Creekside area of Whistler, near Nita Lake.
The railway runs along a cliff-edge on one mountain, then leaps across the viaduct straight into a tunnel through another mountain.
The Thomas Cook Rail Map of Europe is the best and most comprehensive map of train routes right across Europe, from Portugal in the west to Istanbul, Moscow & Ukraine in the east, from Finland in the north to Sicily & Crete in the south.
Map of Dublin showing railway stations & city centre.
London to Valencia, Tarragona, Zaragoza
London to Segovia, Toledo, Salamanca
Dunedin - Queenstown (by Taieri Gorge Railway & connecting bus)
none available - Swiss-Austria-Hungary Railjet Zurich-Innsbruck-Salzburg-Vienna-Budapest More info about Railjet Italy Domestic trains: Routes operated: Seating plan: More information: Eurostar Italia 'Frecciarossa' (ETR500) Milan-Florence-Rome-Naples 175mph high-speed trains
City Night Line: Double-deck sleeping-cars
It's good to report that the night trains Paris-Brussels-Berlin, Paris-Brussels-Hamburg and Paris-Munich once again have comfortable sleeping-cars as well as the more basic couchettes.
Scotland by sleeper...
This is the best and most comprehensive map of train routes right across Europe, from Portugal in the west to Istanbul, Moscow & Ukraine in the east, from Finland in the north to Sicily & Crete in the south.
Useful links: Barcelona metro & local transport website Left luggage in Paris & Barcelona
BLS Bern-L'tschberg-Simplon (which runs the main Bern-Interlaken-Brig line)
VIA Rail's 'Canadian', Toronto-Winnipeg-Edmonton-Jasper-Vancouver, across Canada by train!
Map of Penzance showing station & ferry quay * Travel from Penzance to London overnight by Night Riviera sleeper train, daily except Saturday nights.
The Toronto-Vancouver 'Canadian': Skyline dome car Economy class seats on a VIA Rail inter-city train...
The Thomas Cook Rail Map of Europe is the best and most comprehensive map of train routes right across Europe, from Portugal in the west to Istanbul, Moscow & Ukraine in the east, from Finland in the north to Sicily & Crete in the south.
Other routes: Warsaw to Moscow, Prague, Vienna, Budapest or Kiev...
Left luggage facilities in Paris
Irish Ferries have enabled online booking of the amazingly cheap SailRail train & ferry tickets from any rail station in Ireland (including Dublin, Galway, Cork, wherever) to any Rail station in Britain (including London, Brighton, Manchester, Glasgow, wherever).
Avalanche alley: The Rocky Mountaineer travels at the very edge of the river under a sheer cliff wall with avalanche protection sheds in several places.
Escorted tours by train to Morocco, Spain, France, Switzerland, Italy, Greece, eastern Europe.
Review of rail+sea travel to Ireland in the Irish Sunday Tribune.
There are daily departures via a choice of routes, the best being London-Paris-Munich-Vienna-Budapest-Bucharest-Istanbul.
A new direct Paris-Moscow train called the 'Trans-European Express' starts running, operated by Russian Railways.
Direct Russian sleeping-cars like this one link Moscow with Amsterdam, Cologne, Basel, Prague, Vienna, Warsaw, Paris & Berlin.
A fast and frequent inter-city service links Boston, New York, Newark, Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington DC.
This runs every 30 minutes between Hendaye, Irun (Colon station, near the Irun mainline station) and San Sebastian (Amara station).
Paris to Nice, Geneva, Avignon, Biarritz, Marseille, Tarbes, Narbonne, St Raphael, Toulon, Toulouse
The Glacier Express passes the pretty village of Reichenau.
London to Biarritz, Irun, Lourdes & Tarbes
The fast ferry Condor Express arriving in St Helier, Jersey...
Glacier Express crossing the Landwasser Viaduct Landwasser Viaduct, with a St Moritz to Chur local train crossing
The Caledonian Sleeper from London to Scotland...
At Hoek van Holland, the ferry terminal is right next to the station, you walk off the ferry via the passenger gangway, through passport control and straight onto the station platform.
Europe starts on Eurostar at St Pancras...
Resort: Station: Transfer options: Courchevel Moutiers Buses run by www.transavoie.com link Moutiers with Courchevel (45 minutes, 10.60 euro) every hour or two.
Sadly, the direct Budapest-Sofia sleeping-car was discontinued in late 2011.
from any British station to Cork, Galway, Limerick, Sligo or any Irish station...
In the depths of winter the landscape is a real-life Narnia, a winter wonderland with crags and cliffs and snow-capped mountains.
The Colombo-Galle fare is only about Rs.
Standard sleeper breakfast Luggage space in a City Night Line sleeper City Night Line sleeper, exterior This is the standard sleeper breakfast, included in the fare and served in your compartment...
DB will extend the Cologne-Vienna, Cologne-Prague, Cologne-Milan, Cologne-Copenhagen and even the Polish Cologne-Warsaw/Moscow sleeper trains to start/finish in Amsterdam, as from 9 December 2007.
at Snaefell summit The view from Snaefell summit, looking towards Laxey At Snaefell summit, 2,036 feet above sea level.
Scotland & north of England to Poland - the ferry alternatives
The Venice Simplon Orient Express passes through the scenic Arlberg Pass...
Fares to Galway, Cork, Limerick etc via Stena Line include this transfer bus between Dublin Port & Dublin city centre.
discount on Stena Line Ireland-UK ferries (Dublin-Holyhead, Rosslare-Fishguard, Belfast-Stranraer)
with the Rail Travel to Europe page next, then Thailand, Trans-Siberian, France, India, Italy, Netherlands, Spain and Russia.
Elsewhere in the UK, there are left luggage offices at Birmingham New Street, Edinburgh Waverley, Glasgow Central, Leeds, Liverpool Lime St, Manchester Piccadilly, see www.left-baggage.co.uk, and there's a small office at Holyhead.
Valletta ferry terminal is walking distance from Valletta city centre, there is a 1-hour check-in time for foot passengers.
Map of Dublin showing ferry terminals, Dun Laoghaire ferry terminal, railway stations & city centre.
Lille Flandres station, the old Lille terminal station some 500m from Lille Europe, in Lille city centre.
City Night Line International A company owned by German Railways running international 'hotel trains' overnight to and through Germany, including Amsterdam to Prague/Copenhagen/Vienna, Berlin-Zurich, Dortmund-Vienna, Hamburg-Zurich, and Paris to Munich/Hamburg/Berlin.
Leaving from the beautiful and much-photographed 1906 railway station in Dunedin's town centre, it travels a few kilometres south over the South Island Main Trunk Line (still well-used for freight but sadly with no passenger service) before branching off inland through the scenic gorge that gives the line its name.
UK zone M: Any station in Cornwall, Devon, Somerset, Dorset.
Helsinki bound!
These run on many long distance routes, including Madrid-Ronda-Algeciras and Madrid-Granada.
The Overlander departing from Auckland: With its observation car attached at the rear, the Auckland-Wellington 'Overlander' stands at platform 3 of the Britomart Transport Centre.
Munich to Vienna
To check train times to other Dutch destinations, first check what time your chosen train+ferry service reaches Hoek van Holland using the London to Amsterdam train+ferry timetable above.
Recommended SailRail service from London to Dublin, Cork, Limerick, Galway, Sligo, Belfast
Today, Brussels-Vienna passengers need to change in Cologne onto a new breed of 'hotel train' with top of the range facilities, the excellent City Night Line 'Eridanus' (www.bahn.de/citynightline).
Swiss Panorama, 7 days including the famous Glacier Express, from around '638 per person.
After Lake Shuswap comes Lake Mara.
Also affected are the Amsterdam-Munich & Amsterdam-Switzerland City Night Line sleepers, which also go down to 4 times a week outside the core March-November season.
Other City Night Line services now use brand-new single-deck sleeping-cars called 'Comfortline'.
Option 3: London-Belfast via Liverpool
Singapore railway station Inside Singapore station
Brand-new 'Allegro' high-speed tilting trains between Helsinki & St Petersburg.
Routes include Paris to Berlin, Paris to Munich, Amsterdam & Cologne to Copenhagen, Dresden, Prague, Zurich, Munich.
Enter 'Dublin City' for journeys to Dublin via Stena Line with their transfer bus to Dublin city centre included.
This is the best and most comprehensive map of train routes right across Europe, from Portugal in the west to Istanbul, Moscow & Ukraine in the east, from Finland in the north to Sicily & Crete in the south.
Option 1: London to Prague using the Cologne-Prague City Night Line sleeper...
Option 2: London to Prague using the Paris-Berlin City Night Line sleeper...
Here, the two direct Bangkok to Butterworth sleeping-cars of the International Express have arrived at Butterworth...
London to Cork, Limerick, Waterford,
Copenhagen to Sweden, Norway, Finland...
Oslo to Stockholm, Copenhagen, Gothenburg
Syria to Lebanon, Jordan, Egypt
Service increases to daily over the Paris-Munich-Vienna section.
Lecce, Brindisi, Bari, Ancona, Rimini ? London (option 1, by sleeper)
Zurich, Basel, Geneva & Lausanne to Milan
Brussels to Copenhagen, Oslo, Stockholm & Scandinavia...
Switzerland to Copenhagen, Oslo, Stockholm & Scandinavia...
s'Hertogenbosch (Netherlands) to Livorno & Alessandria (Italy)...
Left luggage facilities in Paris, Barcelona & Madrid Spanish train seating plans
Germany to Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland & Scandinavia...
London to Pompeii, Sorrento, Capri, Ischia, & Elba...
Reims, Clermont Ferrand, Versailles, Orleans, Blois, and so on.
Austria: Vienna to/from Innsbruck, Feldkirch, Villach (Austrian domestic), Vienna-Hamburg (Germany), Vienna-Florence (Italy)
Which British station is in which zone?
There is a direct City Night Line sleeper train from Copenhagen to Amsterdam, Cologne, Prague & Basel, leaving around 18:00 and arriving next morning.
The Thomas Cook Rail Map of Europe is the best and most comprehensive map of train routes right across Europe, from Portugal in the west to Istanbul, Moscow & Ukraine in the east, from Finland in the north to Sicily & Crete in the south.
Option 1, London-Vienna via Brussels & the Cologne-Vienna sleeper...
They were introduced in 2008 onto all intercity routes from Dublin, other than the Dublin-Belfast and Dublin-Cork routes.
Scotland to Paris or Brussels by sleeper+Eurostar...
London-Paris-Athens-Thessaloniki-Istanbul An alternative route via Greece.
Arrange your own holiday independently to Spain, Italy, Greece, Morocco, Malta, eastern Europe or Scandinavia...
Most Paris-Lyon services, many Paris-Marseille services, most Paris-Nice and even some Lille-Marseille services are now run by impressive 186 mph TGV Duplex double-deckers.
On City Night Line, children under 6 go free, children under 16 travel at the child rate (not, as Rail Europe say, under 4'sfree and under 12 child rate).
DB's direct London-Cologne and London-Amsterdam ICE trains delayed till 2015...
Europe to Vietnam overland...
Europe to Cambodia overland...
The European computer reservation system, in fact a linked network of different railways' reservation systems, covers most of Western Europe and much of Eastern Europe, from Portugal in the west to Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia and (as of 2005) Serbia and Romania in the east, and from Sicily in the south to Sweden and Finland in the north, inclusive.
Travel from Odense to Hirtshals in northern Denmark by Danish domestic train.
For Bilbao, catch a bus from Irun to Bilbao with www.alsa.es, leaving Bilbao railway station at 11:00 arriving Bilbao at 13:30.
The main visitor entrance to Pompeii ruins is right outside Pompeii Scavi station, across the road and to the right.F2946
Europe-wide timetable change from 12 June...
Other scenic Swiss trains: Bernina Express, Golden Pass Panoramic
Buses from Armadale to Broadford, Portree & other towns on Skye: www.stagecoachbus.com/highlands.
Rainforest to Goldrush' route (Whistler-Quesnel-Jasper): Formerly marketed as the Fraser Discover route, this route is all about getting off the beaten track into gold-rush and timber country, rather than taking a famous trans-continental rail line.
Free travel on Veljekset Salmela bus service Kemi/Tornio-Haparanda (across the top from Sweden into Finland)
Onwards to Germany by ICE high-speed train: At Hoek van Holland, you walk off the ship, through passport control and straight onto the station for the frequent Sprinter train to Rotterdam.
Harwich International station is right next to the ferry terminal.
These coaches were originally used on the premier 'Trans-Europe Express' (TEE)service between Paris, Brussels and Amsterdam before being replaced with high speed 'Thalys' trains.
UK passengers wanting to save time over daytime travel on high-speed TGVs will now need to travel via Paris, using the all-year-round 'Train Bleu' sleeper train from Paris to Cannes, Nice & Monaco.
Scotland & North of England to Budapest avoiding London West Country & South Coast to Budapest avoiding London
Scotland & North of England to Switzerland avoiding London West Country & South Coast to Switzerland avoiding London
Copenhagen H (main station) Inside Copenhagen main station.
They link Moscow with Cologne, Amsterdam, Paris, Vienna, Prague, Munich, Basel and other cities...
Recommended SailRail service from Dublin, Cork, Limerick, Galway, Sligo, Belfast to London
On TGV Duplex, 'salle basse' = lower deck, 'salle haute' = upper deck (upper deck recommended unless you have mobility problems).
Norse Merchant Ferries 'Lagan Viking' Liverpool to Belfast Comfortable cabin on board Norse Merchant Ferries
Copenhagen Hovedbaneg'rd (main station) is right next door to the famous Tivoli Gardens (www.tivoli.dk) and just 5 minutes walk from the city centre shopping area.
Austria to Copenhagen, Stockholm, Oslo
Since 19 December 2010, two direct double-decker high-speed trains have linked Paris with Spain every day, using the first section of the new Perpignan-Barcelona high-speed line.
Step 2, book the Cologne-Copenhagen sleeper train: Go to the German Railways website www.bahn.de, select 'English' top right.
It links Europe with China, Japan, Korea, even Vietnam and South East Asia.
Paris-Hamburg City Night Line sleeper train reinstated!
Seats car More info about City Night Line International trains: Routes operated: Seating plan: More information: Thalys to Brussels & Paris Cologne - Brussels-Paris click for seating plan
A high-speed train at Cardiff On board the high-speed train between London & Cardiff The local train from Cardiff to Fishguard, arrived at Fishguard Harbour
The famous Thomas Cook Overseas Timetable has train, bus and ferry times for every country in Africa, Asia, North and South America and Australasia.
The Canadian Pacific Railway opened the first trans-continental line across Canada in 1885, running from Montreal/Toronto to Vancouver via Winnipeg, Calgary and Banff.
Auto-Train: SNCF (French Railways) offer an all-year-round 'Auto-train' service from Paris to Nice, Avignon, Biarritz, Marseille, Tarbes, Narbonne, St Raphael, Toulon, Toulouse.
London to Cork, Limerick, Galway, Tralee, Sligo, Wicklow or anywhere in the Republic of Ireland...
Lille Europe has several coffee shops and bars (the coffee in Conway's Irish bar is very good, and the beer isn't bad either!
See the Europe to India overland page...
ICE second class ICE first class High-speed ICE train from Cologne to Berlin
The London - Fort William 'Caledonian Sleeper' on Rannoch Moor...
Spanish Railways run special 'trainhotels' on important national and international routes including Paris to Madrid & Barcelona, Madrid to Lisbon, Madrid to Barcelona, Barcelona to Milan & Zurich, and Barcelona to Seville, Granada & Malaga.
Option 2: Direct high-speed daytime trains from Paris to Cologne, Stuttgart, Mannheim, Frankfurt, Munich: There's a whole range of direct daytime high-speed trains from Paris to Frankfurt (3h45), Stuttgart (3h40), Munich (6 hours) or Cologne (3h30).
InterCity railcars from Dublin to Galway, Waterford, Sligo, Wexford, Limerick, Rosslare...
Comparable with Western Europe, in fact most of the rolling stock is imported from Spain, clean, modern, well maintained......and probably the only really good track in South America!
With Stena Line, you can buy a ticket to 'Dublin City' which includes a bus transfer to the city centre, and costs '1 more than the fare to Dublin Port.
This will allow new high-speed services between Paris and Basel, Zurich, Stuttgart, Frankfurt & Munich.
Transfer from ferry terminal to station in Calais: The ferries arrive at Calais Maritime ferry terminal.
Here, the Royal Scotsman crosses the Findhorn Viaduct near Tomatin on the Highland Line.
Transfer from Dublin Ferryport to Dublin Connolly station and board the 19:00 'Enterprise' express train to Belfast.
Malta's George Cross in the Valetta Museum Malta: Valetta street scene
After Black Canyon Tunnel, the Rocky Mountaineer crosses the Thompson on a steel girder bridge.
A 'boat train' links Turku Harbour station with Helsinki soon after the ship's arrival.
Scotland & the north of England to Italy - the ferry alternatives
Heuston station, Dublin, showing LUAS tram Inside Heuston station, Dublin Above: Dublin's Heuston station, showing the new LUAS tram (www.luas.ie) which links it to the city centre & to Dublin's other main station, Dublin Connolly.
Travel from Cologne to Brussels by high speed ICE train, leaving Cologne at 11:43 and arriving Brussels Midi 13:35.
then take a direct sleeper train from Amsterdam to Vienna, Milan, Switzerland, Prague, Munich, Warsaw, Moscow...
Watch the video: London to Scotland by Caledonian Sleeper...
New video: London to Scotland by Caledonian Sleeper...
Travel from Seville to Madrid by high-speed AVE, leaving Seville at 13:45 arriving in Madrid Atocha station at 16:05.
New page: Glacier Express, Switzerland's most scenic train ride...
This will greatly affect the London to Paris rail-sea-rail service shown on the London to France page.
The sheer contrast is exhilarating, between going to sleep as the train speeds north at 80mph through the likes of Watford or Milton Keynes, then waking to find your sleeping-car twisting and turning on a remote single-track branch line through the beautiful West Highlands of Scotland at 30mph, past lichen-covered oak trees and bubbling brooks, with deer bounding away from the train as it passes.
The train stops at Kaikoura, the South Island's main whale-watching and dolphin-swimming centre.
Make sure it's the one in the right-hand 'Price without reduction' column.
The Madrid metro (www.metromadrid.es) also links Madrid Chamartin station with the city centre & Madrid Atocha station.
Cable cars run up the mountains, seaplanes run scenic flights, and there are many outdoor activities in both summer and winter.
Back to 'Rail travel to Europe' general page
London to India overland
London to Singapore overland
German Rail pass for Germany.
The famous ruined city of Petra nestles in a valley surrounded by mountains and approached through over a mile of narrow defile.
Transfers from Dublin city centre: Take a taxi from central Dublin to Dublin Ferryport.
How to buy tickets if you live in the USA, Canada, Australia, Canada, Australia, Asia, Africa or South America...
Travel from Europe to Canada by ship...
In France, Accor Group run the good-quality & good-value Ibis, Mercure & Sofitel brand hotels in almost all French cities.
discount on Irish ferries (including direct Ireland-France ferries).
City Night Line deluxe 2-berth sleeper City Night Line deluxe sleeper in day mode City Night Line deluxe sleeper, private toilet & shower City Night Line deluxe sleeper breakfast Deluxe sleeper in 2-berth mode.
Munich to Budapest
by Julia Stephenson...
Madrid to Bordeaux...
Copenhagen to Italy...
Madrid to Lisbon
Madrid to Algeciras
Copenhagen to Oslo
Andorra to Barcelona...
Madrid to Seville
Madrid to Malaga
Madrid to Granada
Barcelona to Valencia
bed sleeper, night mode, on the Paris-Florence/Rome overnight train...
This is a good option, as Zagreb to Split is a very scenic train ride, with mountains, lakes, rivers, and even vineyards.
Direct sleeper trains also run to Moscow from Amsterdam, Paris, Vienna, Prague, Warsaw, Berlin, Budapest, Helsinki and many other cities, just use http://bahn.hafas.de to check train times.
City Night Line standard (economy) sleeper City Night Line standard (economy) sleeper in day mode Standard sleeper compartment, washstand Comfortline sleeper corridor Standard sleeper compartment set up as a 2-berth, with blind down & washstand open.
Every day, a direct high-quality City Night Line sleeper train runs from Amsterdam to Prague, also calling at Cologne & Dresden.
The train+ferry option between London & Paris via Dover/Calais is explained on the London-Paris by train+ferry page.
London to Moscow via Copenhagen, Stockholm & Helsinki...
To reach Havana Casablanca station, take the ferry across the harbour from the foot of Santa Clara Street in Havana old town.
return London or any rail station in the Greater London area '92 '98.50 '123 Zone A: Any station in Lancashire, Greater Manchester, Merseyside '59.50 '59.50 '76 Zone B: Any station in Cumbria, Yorkshire, Staffordshire, Shropshire, Cheshire, Clwyd, northern Gwynedd (inc Holyhead, Bangor) '67 '65 '90 Zone C: Any station in Lincolnshire, Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire, Leicestershire, Northamptonshire, West Midlands, Warwickshire, Hereford & Worcester, Powys, southern Gwynedd (inc Pwhelli), Tyne & Wear, Northumberland, Durham, Cleveland, Borders, Strathclyde, Dumfries & Galloway, Central, Fife, Lothian '78 '79 '106 Zone D: Any station in Greater London, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, Oxfordshire, Bedfordshire, Wiltshire, Gloucestershire, Avon, Hertfordshire, Cambridgeshire, Essex, Suffolk, Norfolk, Dyfed, Glamorgan, Gwent '92 '98.50 '123 Zone E: Any station in Cornwall, Devon, Somerset, Dorset, Hampshire, Surrey, Sussex, Kent, Highland, Grampian, Tayside '120 '119.50 '146
There are many other scenic routes in Britain, including: * Inverness to Kyle of Lochalsh, for more Scottish Highland beauty...
Salamis Lines (Greece-Cyprus-Israel, both still suspended).
Option 2 is to book London-Paris at www.eurostar.com, Paris-Munich at www.bahn.de and Munich-Verona/Bologna/Venice also at www.bahn.de.
UK to Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland...
The Caledonian Sleeper train from London to Scotland...
KL Sentral station, main entrance & taxi rank KL Sentral station, main entrance hall on Level 2
from Scotland to Paris...
The Cologne-Moscow sleeping-car at Brest.
Bicycles are carried on the overnight City Night Line sleeper trains between Amsterdam/Cologne and Copenhagen, Prague, Munich & Zurich.
Travel via Dover-Calais
Free travel on Arlanda Express airport rail link.
They use the German Railways reservation system, so are good for travel to Germany, Scandinavia, central and eastern Europe.
One or two TGVs to the south leave from Lille Flandres rather than Lille Europe.
Harwich International station is right next to the ferry terminal.
The train crosses from Denmark to Sweden on the 1999-built 'resund Link tunnel & road/rail bridge...
The train now only runs between Paris, Vienna & Budapest, with sleeping-car, couchettes & seats Paris-Vienna, couchettes & seats cars Paris-Budapest, seats car & restaurant car Vienna-Budapest.
Left luggage: Major French stations including Paris Gare du Nord, Paris Gare d'Austerlitz Est & Paris Gare de Lyon have left-luggage lockers in various sizes, up to suitcase-sized.
The Trans-Asia Express used to start in Istanbul until September 2011, but it now starts in Ankara.
Introducing the Cologne-Prague City Night Line sleeper train...
InterRail passes are not valid on the local Circumvesuviana Railway Naples-Pompeii-Sorrento, or on high-speed trains run by new private operator 'Italo' running Milan-Florence-Rome-Naples trains in competition with national operator Trenitalia.
Eurail passes are not valid on the local Circumvesuviana Railway Naples-Pompeii-Sorrento, or on high-speed trains run by new private operator 'Italo' running Milan-Florence-Rome-Naples trains in competition with national operator Trenitalia.
For Bologna, Florence, Rome or Naples: Travel from Milan to Bologna, Florence, Rome or Naples by high-speed Eurostar Italia Frecciarossa train.
At Hoek van Holland, the ferry terminal is right next to the station, you walk off the ferry through passport control and onto the station platform.
Easy transfer to Madrid Atocha station.
Their most popular tour combines 1st class overland travel from London to Switzerland by Eurostar & high-speed TGV with a ride on the famous narrow-gauge Glacier Express, which runs right across Switzerland from St Moritz to Zermatt through spectacular scenery.
The train joins the Jasper-Kamloops-Vancouver main line, and passes through the Yellowhead Pass.
The Berlin-Paris, Munich-Paris and Hamburg-Paris City Night Line sleeper trains save a hotel bill and are more time-effective than 4 or 5 daytime hours of stressful airports and flights.
Tangier's new station Inside the new Tangier Ville station...
Innsbruck or Salzburg to Amsterdam: First go to www.bahn.de and book the direct City Night Line sleeper train from Munich (depart 22:47) to Amsterdam (arrive 08:56).
The Esbjerg-Copenhagen InterCity trains and the Cologne-Copenhagen City Night Line sleeper train all call at Kolding & Odense en route to Copenhagen.
Montreal to Ottawa fares start at Can$35, regular fare Can$61.
Murray Brown, editor of Rail Express magazine, takes a break from high-speed passes on Jeremy Clarkson's 'TGV12'...
London to Cornwall by Night Riviera sleeper
Next we check London-Cologne prices on the Belgian Railways international website www.b-europe.com.
Both www.thetrainline.com can now book one-way or return tickets from any rail station in Britain to any rail station in Ireland, including London, Birmingham, Manchester or Leeds to Cork, Galway, Tralee, Limerick, wherever, with British train, ferry and Irish train all included on one cheap ticket.
Other French cities to Spain, e.g. Nice-Barcelona.
The platform at Woodlands train checkpoint A train at Woodlands train checkpoint Woodlands: The single platform at Singapore's Woodlands Train Checkpoint.
This may be a better option, involving an Algeciras-Tarifa bus but avoiding the Tanger Med Port to Tangier 42 km bus transfer.
London to Geneva, Lausanne, Zurich or
London to Le Mans, Nantes, Rennes
London to Segovia, Toledo & Salamanca
London to Lanzarote, Las Palmas, Tenerife
Change in Milan for an Italian high-speed train to Verona, Venice, Bologna, Florence, Rome or Naples.
Option 2, via Switzerland & Germany: First book the excellent direct City Night Line sleeper train from Zurich to Amsterdam at www.bahn.de.
Option 2, London-Vienna via Paris, the Paris-Munich sleeper & Railjet...
The confluence of Thompson & Fraser rivers is now on the right.
Eurostar is the high-speed passenger train from London (St Pancras International station) to central Brussels (Midi station) via the Channel Tunnel.
This is while Kenya Port Authority works to clear massive freight congestion at the Mombasa Port.
The train cuts across Lichtenstein, passing non-stop through Schaan-Lichtenstein station...
D'sseldorf (Germany) to Verona, Alessandria, Trieste, Bolzano (Italy), Munich (Germany), Villach, Salzburg, Innsbruck (Austria)...
Eurostar Italia 'Frecciargento' (ETR485, ETR610) Various including Venice-Florence-Rome, Rome-Bari.
Destinations include Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Belgium, Russia and France.
Cologne to Moscow by direct sleeper
UK zone K: Any station in Lincolnshire, Nottinghamshire, Leicestershire, Northamptonshire, Warwickshire, West Midlands, Gloucestershire, Hereford & Worcester, Derbyshire, Gwynedd, Clwyd UK zone L: Any station in Greater London, Hertfordshire, Cambridgeshire, Oxfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, Bedfordshire, Wiltshire, Avon, Hampshire, Sussex, Kent, Norfolk, Suffolk, Essex.
Nice to Milan, Venice, Rome & Italy...
The train passes Pyramid Falls (see photo above), where water cascades 300 feet beside the tracks.
Sleeping-cars on France-Germany night trains
Daily all-year-round*, the all-weather ferry 'Ben My Chree' sails from Douglas Sea Terminal in city centre Douglas at 08:45 arriving Heysham at 12:15.
Enter 'Dublin Port (Irish Ferries)' as your destination for journeys to Dublin using Irish Ferries ship 'Ulysses' or their 'Swift' fast ferry.
Rail staff 'priv' travel in Europe
UK zone J: Any station in Yorkshire, Humberside, Shropshire, Staffordshire, Cheshire.
Europe to India overland (via Turkey, Iran, Pakistan)
Back to 'Rail travel to Europe' page
For Venice, select Venice Santa Lucia, the main station in Venice.
Colombo to Matara is about Rs.
On the Milan-Florence-Rome-Naples route there's a restaurant car.
Europe to South Korea without flying...
Jasper to Vancouver (Yellowhead)...
Paris to Athens (Greece)...
Paris to Moscow (Russia)
Brussels to Budapest (Hungary)...
Brussels to Moscow (Russia)...
Amsterdam to Moscow (Russia)
Germany to Moscow (Russia)...
Munich to Verona, Bologna
Brussels-Amsterdam by InterCity train...
You'll see beaches, cliffs, rocky headlands, in places draped with low-lying sea mist.
For Sorrento, Pompeii & Herculaneum (Ercolano), take the narrow-gauge Circumvesuviana Railway (www.vesuviana.it) from Naples Garibaldi station.
Les Arcs Bourg St Maurice Alight at Bourg St Maurice and walk back towards the rear of the train and over the footbridge to the funicular (mountain railway) station which is right next to the mainline station platforms.
Brussels-Cologne ICE fares start at 19 euros, Cologne-Copenhagen fares start at just 43 euros with a seat, 59 euros in a couchette, or 99 euros in a 2-bed sleeper if you pre-book, bookings normally open 90 days in advance.
Rail Europe sadly announced the complete closure of the French Motorail service from Calais to southern France, due to rising costs and poor exchange rates.
For example, from central London to Rotterdam, Den Haag, Leiden, Haarlem, Utrecht, Arnhem, Nijmegen, Eindhoven, Maastricht, Groningen, Enschede, Deventer, Amersfoort, in fact any Dutch railway station you like...
Irish Ferries ship 'Ulysses' from Holyhead to Dublin.
Germany: At Berlin, Bremen, Dresden, D'sseldorf, Frankfurt am Main, Frankfurt Main Airport, Hamburg, Hanover, Cologne, Leipzig, Mannheim, Munich, Nuremberg, Stuttgart.
Rail Europe's online reservation system can be quite a good way to book rail travel from London to Italy or Spain.
Rocky Mountaineer passing Avalanche Alley next to the Fraser River
To connect with the four-times-a-week ferry you need to leave London on a Monday, Tuesday, Thursday or Friday afternoon.
Re-routing of Paris-Berlin sleeper & withdrawal of Paris/Brussels-Hamburg sleeper, from Dec 2008
Cologne Hauptbahnhof Inside the station Cologne cathedral Above: Cologne Hauptbahnhof, main entrance...
A high-speed AVE train to Malaga waits to leave Madrid Atocha station.
Above: Maputo railway station, Mozambique.
This was originally a German Railways' City Night Line train, but in December 2009 it became an Austrian Railways ('BB) 'EuroNight' sleeper train, with sleeping-car, couchettes & seats.
The sleeping-car on the Paris-Berlin City Night Line train boarding at the Gare de l'Est
Scotland & North of England to Switzerland
Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland Children under 6 free,
Brussels to Nice, Lyon, Bordeaux & other French cities.
It also works for City Night Line sleeper trains across Germany, such as Amsterdam to or from Copenhagen, Prague, Warsaw, Munich, or Zurich.
Standard sleeper breakfast Luggage space in a City Night Line sleeper The City Night Line sleeper train from Amsterdam to Prague, at Amsterdam This is the standard sleeper breakfast, included in the fare and served in your compartment...
A Wellington to Auckland Overlander crosses to Hapuawhenua Viaduct
Europe to Vietnam overland by Trans-Siberian Railway
Europe to Cambodia overland by Trans-Siberian Railway
Syria page: The weekly Mersin-Adana-Aleppo train linking Turkey and Syria stopped running in December - though reports suggest it may return for the summer season in May 2011.
Britannia Club Balcony: Similar to a Britannia Deluxe balcony, but allocated to the single-sitting 'Britannia Club' restaurant, a separate off-shoot of the main Britannia restaurant.
As it used to be: There's a good look round Singapore's railway station in this video or see this Map showing location of Singapore's old railway station
Swiss pass for Switzerland.
Buses link the ferry terminal (Travem'nde Skandinavienkai Terminal) with L'beck ZOB bus station, it's a short walk to L'beck station, then local trains run every 30-60 minutes to Hamburg Hbf.
Irish Ferries' superb cruise ferry 'Ulysses' from Holyhead to Dublin...
Brussels to Italy from 70 euros: Milan, Florence, Rome, Verona, Venice...
Option 1: Europe to Australia by sea.
This covers Turkey, Syria, Jordan, Egypt, Iran, Israel and several other countries.
How to buy tickets if you live in the USA, Canada, Australia, Asia, Africa or South America...
A Tirrenia Line ferry arrives in Sardinia
London to Rosslare & Wexford via the Fishguard-Rosslare ferry
River Kwai Bridge station is in the far background, just before the bridge.
Rail Europe do not sell rail+sea tickets to Paris or Brussels, only Eurostar.
The daily 'International Express' links Bangkok & Butterworth (linked by frequent ferry to Penang island) in less than 24 hours, with modern air-conditioned 2nd class sleeping-cars of the Thai railways.
After Innsbruck the train turns south through the equally scenic Brenner Pass from Austria into Italy to reach Verona.
Long-distance trains between Chicago & Los Angeles/San Francisco/Seattle/Portland, also the New Orleans-Los Angeles 'Sunset Limited', Seattle-Los Angeles 'Coast Starlight' and Washington DC-Chicago 'Capitol Limited' use impressive double-deck Superliner cars.
Lake Bled to/from Trieste & Venice
Swiss Lakes & Mountains, 8 days to Geneva, Interlaken, Lucerne, Lake Maggiore, from around '730 per person.
Paris to Italy from 25 euros: Paris to Rome, Florence, Milan, Turin, Verona, Venice...
Direct Innsbruck-Paris sleeper on winter Saturdays!
Ferry to Skye & the islands.
The Rhine Valley looks wonderful in the moonlight!
Alternatively, a transfer bus leaves from the the interchange next to the St Stephen's shopping centre at 17:15 taking 15 minutes to the ferry terminal, bus fare '3.25, pay on the bus.
Resorts linked to Albertville: Albertville Buses run by www.altibus.com link the station with surrounding esorts.
After major work improving rail access to Prague's central Hlavni station, Berlin-Prague-Budapest/Vienna trains will no longer by-pass central Prague, but will use Hlavni station, walking distance from all the sights.
The wall of this crater burst, sending a 'lahar' or 6-metre high torrent of water, mud and volcanic rock down the mountainside and along the river.
London to Amman via Greece-Israel ferry
Step 1, book the City Night Line sleeper train from Cologne to Copenhagen & back...
Step 1, book the City Night Line sleeper train from Cologne to Prague & back...
Motor launches connect with the ferry at St Mary's for transfers to the other Scilly Islands, including Tresco with its famous gardens.
Bus service Nairobi-Kampala Train service Nairobi-Kisumu Train service Nairobi-Mombasa Bus service Nairobi-Dar es Salaam Tanzania Railways Dar to Kigoma, Mwanza, Mpanda See the Kenya page Train service Nairobi-Mombasa Train service Nairobi-Mombasa Train service Nairobi-Mombasa Bus service Nairobi-Dar es Salaam Tanzania Railways Dar to Mwanza, Kigoma, Mpanda Train service Nairobi-Mombasa Tanzania Railways Dar to Mwanza, Kigoma, Mpanda TAZARA train Dar es Salaam-Kapiri Mposhi Train service Kitwe-Kapiri-Lusaka-Livingstone See the Zambia & Tanzania page Train service Kitwe-Kapiri-Lusaka-Livingstone Train service Kitwe-Kapiri-Lusaka-Livingstone Train service Bulawayo-Harare Bus service Windhoek-Victoria Falls Train service Harare-Mutare Train service Bulawayo-Victoria Falls See the Zimbabwe page Train service to Rutenga, Chiredzi, Beitbridge Train & bus service in Botswana Bus & train between Zimbabwe & South Africa Train & bus service in Botswana Train service in Namibia Train service Zimbabwe to Maputo Train service Johannesburg-Pretoria-Louis Trichardt-Messina TRUNC
A Thalys high-speed train arrived at Paris Gare du Nord Cafe-bar car on a refurbished Thalys high-speed train Breakfast served in first class on Thalys trains
Direct Eurostar trains to Avignon (summer) & the French Alps (winter)...
All long-distance trains use Brussels Midi station, including trains to Amsterdam, Cologne, Paris and all other destinations in Belgium, so changing trains is easy and only takes a few minutes.
The Slow Boat to Africa...
Book the London-Paris & Paris-Munich trains as shown on the London-Germany page.
It's usually safe to assume that any major city railway station in Europe will have a 'left luggage' facility, either a staffed facility or self-service lockers or both.
The Vienna-Bucharest/Belgrade/Sofia 'Dacia Express' is cut back to run just Budapest-Bucharest/Belgrade/Sofia, plus Vienna to Bucharest in summer only.
At Butterworth E&O passengers alight and board coaches which cross over to Penang island on the ferry.
Train service between Venice & Lake Bled via Nova Gorica
Select the train you want, and on the next page change the drop-down box marked 'More fares' to 'smart price', a cheap advance-purchase fare.
A scenic narrow-gauge train service links Bastia, Ponte Leccia, Corte, Vizzavona & Ajaccio (four trains per day), with a branch from Ponte Leccia to Ile Rousee & Calvi (two trains per day).
Whistler Dome class' has disappeared, probably to supply the cars for the new 'Silver Leaf' service on the Banff/Calgary route.
The main seating area, on two levels, on the Condor Express fast ferry to Guernsey & Jersey Fast ferry 'Condor Express' at St Helier, Jersey On board the Condor Express...
Soon, the train starts following the massive and dramatic Rangitikei river gorge, and passes over a series of huge viaducts and occasional tunnel.
Glacier Express Zermatt - Brig - Chur - St Moritz click for seating plan More info on Glacier Express International trains: Routes operated: Seating plan: More information: TGV-Lyria to Paris Geneva, Lausanne, Bern, Basel, Zurich to Paris More info about Lyria ICE 1 to Germany Switzerland - Germany click for seating plan More info about ICE ICE 2 to Germany Switzerland - Germany click for seating plan More info about ICE ICE 3 to Germany Switzerland - Germany click for seating plan More info about ICE City Night Line sleeper trains Basel or Zurich - Prague
From December 2011, the Paris-Turin-Milan TGV trains will feature chic interiors by designer Christian Lacroix.
Buying connecting train tickets from other UK towns & cities Scotland & North of England to Germany avoiding London
Paris-Berlin & Paris-Munich City Night Line sleepers return to daily operation all year round...
Such was public support that the service has been saved, albeit running 3 times a week in the off-season, daily during the Christmas, Easter and summer high-season periods.
A bus will transfer you from the ferry terminal to Hull city centre on arrival, bus fare '3.25.
A handful of sleeper trains in Italy (for example, Milan-Naples & Rome-Palermo overnight trains) have a third type of sleeper called 'Excelsior' as well as normal sleeping-cars.
London to Cork via the Swansea-Cork ferry
Stena Line worsens ferry service to Belfast, switching ferries from rail-connected Stranraer to middle-of-nowhere Cairnryan...
From Dhaka to Calcutta, immigration controls take place at Dhaka Cantonment station.
Scotland & the North of England to Belgium by cruise ferry By-pass London on a cruise ferry...
On board the Helsinki-Moscow 'Tolstoi'...
Option 4: By-pass London with a cruise ferry from the North of England or Scotland to Europe...
Or enter the name of any Irish rail station as destination, including Cork, Galway, Limerick, Sligo, Killarney or Tralee.
In Venice, Venice Santa Lucia is on the Grand Canal in Venice itself, Venice Mestre is an industrial area on the mainland.
After the train leaves National Park, you pass over a succession of imposing viaducts, in thick bush over huge river gorges.
In Brussels, select 'Brussel Zuid' as this is the main station in Brussels, also known as Brussels Midi or 'Brussels South Station'.
On board the Paris-Moscow Trans-European Express...
Alternative ferry from Tarifa to Tangier town: Alternatively, fast ferry company www.frs.es operates a transfer bus from Algeciras to Tarifa to connect with its regular fast ferries direct to the more Tangier's old ferry terminal more conveniently located in the heart of Tangier town.
Long-distance train service due north out of Toronto, run by Ontario Northland, see www.ontc.on.ca.
Rough Guide to Europe - click to buy online at Amazon Lonely Planet Western Europe - click to buy online Lonely Planet Eastern Europe - buy online at Amazon.co.uk Lonely Planet Europe on a shoestring - click to buy online
UK-Netherlands by ferry, for trains to Berlin, Prague, Copenhagen, Zurich, Munich...
Simla station The Toy Train to Simla Simla station.
Buses to Dublin city centre: With Irish Ferries, the transfer bus from Dublin Port to Dublin city centre costs 2.50 euros, which you simply pay on board the bus.
West Point Academy, see from Amtrak's Lake Shore Limited New York to Chicago train Ruined house on Bannerman's island...
It had train, bus & ferry times for every country in Asia, Africa, North and South America and Australasia, including non-European Russia, Asian Turkey, Mongolia, China and the Trans-Siberian Railway.
High-speed ICE train from Paris to Frankfurt ICE first class ICE second class
or Portsmouth to Jersey & Guernsey on Condor Ferries ship Commodore Clipper...
The German Railways website www.bahn.de (English button top right) can book the excellent direct City Night Line sleeper train from Copenhagen (depart 18:10) to Prague (arriving 09:26).
There's a shuttle bus from the ferry terminal to the busaras (main bus station) in Dublin city centre, 2 minutes walk from Dublin's Connolly station for trains to Belfast, Wicklow & Sligo.
The Amsterdam-Milan City Night Line sleeper is withdrawn.
Using the Paris-Munich City Night Line sleeper train...
You'll need to make a ferry reservation: Your train & ferry ticket will not include a ferry reservation.
Cairo-Khartoum (Sudan) by train & ferry
Pacific Central train station, Vancouver VIA Rail's Canadian from Vancouver to Toronto, at Vancouver
Budapest to Belgrade
Hamburg to Zurich
Dublin to Belfast...
Dublin to Amsterdam...
Switzerland to Portugal: Switzerland to Lisbon...
Switzerland to Prague...
Switzerland to Budapest...
Switzerland to Moscow...
Spain to Germany...
Lisbon to Seville...
Germany to Spain...
Stockholm to Finland
Helsinki to Stockholm
Helsinki to Germany
Budapest to Amsterdam...
Budapest to Switzerland...
Budapest to Prague...
Prague to Krakow...
Krakow to Amsterdam...
Milan to Bari
Sydney to Melbourne?
Seattle to Vancouver...
Irun to Lisbon
Milan to Ancona
Naples to Sicily:
Copenhagen to Stockholm
Copenhagen to Gothenburg
Basel to Interlaken
Berlin to Warsaw
Berlin to Krakow
Above: Wadi Halfa.
Cairo to Suez
Warsaw to Moscow
Berlin to Moscow
Amsterdam to Moscow...
Budapest to Sofia:
It's worth knowing that there are overnight sleeper trains from Amsterdam Centraal direct to Vienna (Fri, Sat & Sun), Milan (Fri, Sat & Sun), Prague (daily), Munich (daily March-Nov, only on Mon, Fri, Sat Sun at other times), Switzerland (daily March-Nov, only on Mon, Fri, Sat Sun at other times), Copenhagen (daily), Warsaw (daily) and even Moscow (daily).
The India/Burma border is closed to foreigners.
For journeys from London to France, Spain, Portugal, Switzerland & Italy, call Rail Europe on 0844 848 5 848 (lines open 09:00-19:00 Monday-Friday, 09:00-18:00 Saturday).
DFDS has bought Fjord Line's ship 'Fjord Norway' and will take over Fjord Line's Newcastle-Norway service, but this leaves Sweden with no direct ferries to and from the UK.
London to Italy via the Harwich-Hoek van Holland superferry...
Amsterdam hotels Travel from Cambridge, Ipswich, Norwich etc.
Eurostar arrives at platforms 1 & 2 at Brussels Midi station (Bruxelles Midi in French, Brussel Zuid in Flemish, Brussels South in English, they're all the same place).
Bonn (Germany) to Turkey ('erkezk'y)...
On this 2-night Highland tour the Royal Scotsman left Edinburgh, crossed the famous Forth Bridge, passed Perth and headed up the Highland Line for a visit to Dalwhinnie whisky distillery...
Most cargo shipping lines go to Sydney or Melbourne in Australia via the Suez canal, starting from Tilbury (UK), Hamburg (Germany), Rotterdam (Netherlands) or Dunkirk (France), though some head west via the Panama Canal.
London to Calais, Lille & Northern France...
Well-established firm Page & Moy offer tours to Italy, France, Switzerland & Germany, including some tours with train travel rather than plane.
Travel from Portbou direct to Valencia on the 'Mare Nostrum', leaving Portbou at 09:52 and going direct to Tarragona at 12:54, Salou 13:07, and arriving at Valencia at 15:15.
t = By direct high-speed TGV train from Paris to Calais, reservation obligatory, higher fare payable.
Burmese children love to wave at trains, especially if they see a western face at the window, and will smile broadly when you wave back.
The famous Glenfinnan Viaduct, as featured in the Harry Potter films The West Highland Line: Loch Eilt, between Ft William & Mallaig
Prague to Warsaw, Budapest, Bucharest, Vienna...
Sydney to Melbourne, Brisbane, Canberra: www.countrylink.info
Austria Domestic trains: Routes operated: Seating plan: More information: Railjet Vienna-Salzburg-Innsbruck More info on Railjet InterCity trains Vienna-Salzburg-Innsbruck, Vienna-Klagenfurt-Graz none available - International trains: Routes operated: Seating plan: More information: Railjet to Switzerland, Germany & Hungary Vienna-Salzburg-Innsbruck-Zurich,
On a positive note, brand new sleeping-cars have now been introduced on the Paris-Brussels-Berlin and Paris-Brussels-Hamburg night train.
Crossing the Cize-Bolozon viaduct on the Haut-Bugey Line, on a Geneva to Paris train Crossing the Cize-Bolozon viaduct on the Haut-Bugey Line, on a Geneva to Paris train The TGV crosses the spectacular Cize-Bolozon viaduct, one of the major engineering feat on the Haut-Bugey line.
Boarding a Copenhagen-Stockholm X2000 train at Copenhagen main station...
Look out for the very English mock-Tudor station building at the old British hill station of Kalaw.
Orient Express journeys to Rome, Krakow, Budapest, Prague, Istanbul...
then take a direct sleeper train from Amsterdam to Vienna, Milan, Prague, Munich, Switzerland...
Left: The Queen Mary 2 towers above her terminal at Southampton, just hours before sailing for New York....
RailJet is Austria's brand-new high-speed train, linking Munich, Salzburg, Vienna & Budapest, also Zurich, Innsbruck & Vienna.
Taking bikes to Denmark, Norway, Sweden...
Bavaria's fairytale castle, Neuschwanstein (www.neuschwanstein.de) is near F'ssen, south-southwest of Munich, close to the Austrian border.
In Tallinn itself, the bus station is inconveniently located some distance from the city centre, while the rail station is right on the edge of the old town - if only it had a decent international service!
London-Malaga by train: An S102 'pato' AVE at Madrid Atocha station
ICE 1 & ICE 2 trains operate on many routes including Cologne-Hanover-Berlin.
ICE2 first class ICE2 second class High-speed ICE train from Cologne to Berlin, at Berlin Hauptbahnhof ICE2 1st class.
From Rome, Florence or Bologna: Travel from from Rome, Florence or Bologna to Turin or Milan by high-speed train.
From Auckland to the first major stop, the Overlander passes towns, villages, light industry and farmland.
Copenhagen to Germany from 39 euros: Hamburg, Cologne, Berlin...
At Figueres, simply cross the platform and board the direct high-speed train to Paris, departing Figueres Vilafant station (5 kilometres from Figueres town) at 10:20 and arriving Paris Gare de Lyon at 15:53.
Left: At Algeciras, the bus station is just across the road (well, around the roundabout) from the railway station.
CAIRNS-FORSAYTH: A little 1963-vintage stainless-steel railcar works the Savannahlander train from Cairns to Forsayth at 06:30 every Wednesday with an overnight hotel stop in Almaden, arriving in Forsayth on Thursday evening.
FEVE Local trains Bilbao-Santander-Oviedo-Ferrol Euskotren Local trains San Sebastian-Bilbao Sweden SJ Swedish State Railways, running most long distance trains in Sweden.
Passengers travel in restored 1920s or 1930s British Pullman cars from London to Folkestone with lunch, wine and champagne included in the fare.
The Sud Express, about to leave Irun on the Franco-Spanish frontier, bound for Lisbon...
Slightly higher fares apply if you use the high-speed London-Dover service from St Pancras, or Calais-Paris options involving high-speed TGVs.
Spanish service updates: Go to www.renfe.com, click 'welcome' for English' then 'Notices' top right.
Ferry operators include www.bluestarferries.com (Blue Star Ferries), www.lane.gr (Lane Ferries), www.ferries.gr/gaferries/ (GA Ferries), www.helios.gr/dane/ (Dane Sea Lines).
Ferry links Japan to China, Korea, Russia
On board the Paris-Moscow sleeper.
There are left luggage offices at all the major London stations, also at Birmingham New Street, Edinburgh Waverley, Glasgow Central, Leeds, Liverpool Lime St, and Manchester Piccadilly.
The price covers your journey from Amsterdam city centre to Prague city centre and includes a reserved seat, couchette or sleeper on the direct City Night Line train, with no baggage fees, no booking fees, no check-in fees, and it may save you the cost of a hotel room.
Paris to Munich
Paris to Madrid
Paris to Barcelona
Take Eurostar from London to Lille and make a simple same-station connection with a high-speed TGV to destinations all over France, including Nice, Marseille, Cannes, Bordeaux, Strasbourg, Toulouse, Avignon, Nantes, N'mes & Montpellier.
Travel from London to Stockholm by Eurostar, ICE, the excellent Cologne-Copenhagen City Night Line sleeper train and a fast X2000 high-speed train to Stockholm, as shown on the London to Sweden page.
Travel from Lisbon to Hendaye on the Sud Express, leaving Lisbon Santa Apolonia station daily at 16:30 or Lisbon Oriente station at 16:38 and arriving Hendaye at 07:10 next morning.
Option 2: London to Sofia via Paris, Munich, Budapest & Belgrade...
There are direct overnight sleeper trains from Amsterdam to Prague, Vienna, Milan, Munich, Warsaw, Copenhagen & Switzerland, making the route via Holland/Amsterdam very handy.
Take Eurostar & TGV high-speed train from London to Nice, Marseille, Lyon, Bordeaux, Avignon, Strasbourg, Perpignan or anywhere in France
A high-speed YHT train at Ankara station Economy class seats on a Turkish YHT high-speed train The new face of Turkish train travel: Above left, a high-speed YHT train at Ankara station.
The one major change was the extension of the Cologne-Warsaw-Moscow train to operate Brussels-Warsaw-Moscow.
Option 2, London & Glasgow to Belfast via Cairnryan This takes about the same time as option 1 and is now the same price, London to Belfast '49.
The hassle-free direct option from East Anglia or the North of England is to use www.stenaline.co.uk (Harwich-Hoek van Holland), www.dfds.co.uk (Newcastle-Amsterdam overnight cruise ferry), or www.poferries.com (Hull-Rotterdam overnight cruise ferry).
This is in connection with line rebuilding, which will ultimately link Europe with Asia through the new Bosphorus rail tunnel.
Transfer from station to ferry terminal in Dover: On arrival at Dover Priory station, take a bus, taxi or walk to Dover Eastern Docks where the P&O ships leave.
Special fares from London to Hamburg, Berlin, Stuttgart, Munich...
The Royal Scotsman's 2-night Highland & 4-night Highland Classic tours take you over the famous Forth Bridge between Dundee & Edinburgh, and these deserve a special mention.
You can book Polish domestic intercity trains such as Warsaw-Krakow at www.intercity.com.pl (here's a direct link to their online sales page: https://bilet.intercity.pl).
Paris to Copenhagen (Denmark) from 78 euros, Stockholm (Sweden), Oslo (Norway)...
All aboard the Caledonian Sleeper from London to Scotland...
Regular X2000 high-speed tilting trains link Copenhagen with Stockholm, check train times at http://bahn.hafas.de.
Rooms are small and fairly basic, but have clean en suite showers & toilets, the hotel is handy for the port, well-located inside the old medina walls and a stone's throw from the old town centre, Petit Socco & Grand Socco.
Change trains at: Chester Crewe Chester Chester, Crewe direct Chester Holyhead train depart by train: 12:39 17:30 04:48 * 12:38
Next day, it crossed the famous Tay & Forth Bridges back to Edinburgh...
Day 3: A connecting Finnish InterCity train leaves Turku Harbour station (Turku Satama) at 08:15, arriving Helsinki main station at 10:58.
Preferente passengers may also use the Sala Club (1st class lounge) in Madrid Atocha station, with complimentary coffee, juices & free beer.
The famous Indian Pacific links Sydney, Adelaide & Perth in 3 days, crossing the great Nullarbor Plain in the process.
Other routes & options including journeys via Copenhagen, Stockholm, Helsinki, Vilnius, Riga or Tallinn.
Train Change trains at: Chester Bangor Chester Birmingham Chester direct Chester & Crewe Crewe direct** direct** Llandudno & Crewe direct Holyhead depart by train: 12:39 11:23 17:30 04:48 * 12:38 11:55 17:21 07:16 (Sun) 12:50 12:50 17:30 04:48 (Mon) London Euston arrive by train: 16:38 15:38 21:42 08:33 * 16:38 15:38 22:43 12:05 (Sun) 16:44 16:44 23:59 08:33 (Mon)
berth sleeper: A similar compartment in night mode, this time set up as a 2-berth room (third bunk unused & folded away) The train to Moscow gathers speed down the platform...
Ferry type: Swift Ulysses Swift Ulysses Swift Ulysses Swift Ulysses Swift Ulysses Swift Ulysses Holyhead depart by ferry: 11:50 14:10 17:15 02:40 11:50 14:10 17:15 02:40 11:50 14:10 17:15 02:40 Dublin Ferryport (terminal 1) arrive: 13:40 17:25 19:15
See the video, London to Scotland by sleeper
Tip: Please set departure time to (say) '07:00' to see departures from London & the South to Belfast.
Left luggage in Madrid.
Condor Ferries' fast ferry from Poole or Weymouth to Guernsey & Jersey The Club Class lounge on the fast ferry to the Channel Islands
Short breaks to Paris, Brussels, Bruges, Amsterdam, Dublin & Ireland, or even Prague, Berlin or Salzburg with travel by train not plane.
Japan East Rail Pass, Japan West (Sanyo) Rail Pass, Japan West (Kansai) Rail Pass...
The famous Stoney Creek Bridge on the Canadian Pacific Railway
Ferry type: HSS** Ship Ship HSS** Ship Ship HSS** Ship Ship Holyhead depart by ferry: 10:00 13:50 02:30 10:00 13:50 02:30 10:00 13:50 02:30 Dun Laoghaire (for Dublin) arrive by ferry: 12:00 | | 12:00 | | 12:00 | | Dublin Ferryport (terminal 2) arrive by ferry: - 17:05 05:45 - 17:05 05:45 - 17:05 05:45
Paris to Switzerland from 25 euros: Paris to Geneva, Lausanne, Bern, Basel, Zurich...
By MRT (metro) & bus: Step 1, take the MRT (mass rapid transit metro) from any downtown Singapore MRT station to Woodlands MRT station.
The final section of new high-speed line from Cordoba to Malaga opened in December 2007, cutting Madrid-Malaga journey time to just 2 hours 40 minutes using the same high-speed AVE trains used between Madrid and Seville.
Or take an evening train to Milan, stay there, and take a daytime Milan-Paris-London service, see above.
Alfa Portugal Premier trains between Lisbon and Oporto.
Eastbound journey (via Belgrade):Westbound journey (via Belgrade):London to Paris by EurostarDate:Belgrade to Budapest by direct sleeping-car Date:Time:16:01/15:31Time:22:10Class:2nd classAccom2:3-bed sleeper 2Paris to Munich by City Night Line sleeper trainDate:Budapest to Munich by RailJet trainDate:Time:20:05/20:20Time:13:10Accom1:6-berth couchette 1Class:2nd classMunich to Budapest by RailJet trainDate:Munich to Paris by City Night Line sleeperDate:Time:09:27Time:22:47Class:2nd classAccom1:6-berth couchette1Budapest to Belgrade by sleeping-carDate:Paris to London by EurostarDate:Time:22:20Time:11:13Accom2:3-bed sleeper 2Class:2nd class1 = The choice is between seat, 6-berth or 4-berth couchettes, 1, 2 or 3 bed sleeper, 1, 2 or 3 bed deluxe sleeper with shower; 2 = The choice is between 1, 2 or 3 bed sleeper; The Belgrade-Sofia train must be booked locally.
Every night except Saturday night around 8:15pm, the Highland sleeper starts boarding at London's Euston station (above, left).
Condor Ferries 'Commodore Clipper' conventional ship from Portsmouth to the Channel Islands Taking the ferry to Jersey or Guernsey: A cabin on the Commodore Clipper The all-weather Commodore Clipper...
This option runs daily between late March & early November, but the Paris-Berlin sleeper train only runs on Mondays, Fridays, Saturdays & Sundays in winter.
There's now a glimmer of hope for ferry travel to Israel, as a new Rhodes-Cyprus & Cyprus-Israel service started in summer 2008.
This new sleeper train will have better catering, better on board service, and will once more start from the Gare de Lyon instead of the lacklustre Gare de Bercy.
Direct trains run from Manchester, Birmingham, Oxford, Reading, Bristol & Cardiff to Southampton, so you won't have to cross London.
These fares are valid from any Greater Anglia railway station, not just London, including Peterborough, Cambridge, Colchester, Chelmsford, Norwich, Ipswich, Ely, Romford, Ilford, or Bishop's Stortford.
Train+ferry travel to Dublin & the Republic of Ireland, see the Ireland page.
Free train transfer to Brussels Central: All Eurostar tickets to Brussels allow a free transfer by frequent local train from Brussels Midi to Brussels Central for the famous Grande Place (Grote Markt) in the city centre.
The easiest way to travel from London to major cities in the south of France is to change from Eurostar to a French high-speed TGV at Lille Europe station.
Central Brussels: If you've time to spare between trains, it's a 25 minute stroll from Brussels Midi station to the famous Grand Place (Grote Markt) in the city centre.
The last two vehicles (one service & generator car, one crew/sleeper) were built in the early 1980s as British Rail Mark 3 sleeping-cars.
London-Amsterdam: There is a really excellent, convenient low-cost train+ferry service from London to Amsterdam or any station in the Netherlands, see the Netherlands page.
click 'train diagram') More info about Thalys ICE 3 Paris to Frankfurt More info about ICE TGV Paris to Stuttgart, Munich, Luxembourg (Lacroix) click for seating plan More info about TGV TGV-Lyria Paris to Geneva, Lausanne, Bern, Basel, Zurich click for seating plan More info about Lyria Paris-Milan TGV Paris - Turin - Milan (Lacroix interior) click for seating plan More info about Paris-Turin-Milan TGVs Thello sleeper trains Paris - Florence, Rome, Milan, Venice sleepers More info about Thello City Night Line sleeper trains Paris - Munich, Paris-Berlin, Paris-Hamburg sleeper trains Comfortline sleeping car
By late August, the Cape Town-Jo'burg and Jo'burg-Durban routes have reportedly resumed.
Scotland & North of England to Prague via ferry
London to Douglas costs '82 return ('103 return on Fri, Sat, Sun June-September), Manchester-Douglas from '49.50 return, Leeds-Douglas from '54.50 return, Birmingham-Douglas from '66 return.
On a handful of routes (for example, Paris-Madrid, Paris-Barcelona, Paris-Munich, Brussels-Berlin, Cologne-Vienna, Cologne-Prague) you can now opt for a deluxe room with private shower & toilet.
Scotland to Paris or Brussels by Caledonian Sleeper + Eurostar...
Exeter to Penzance along the sea wall at Dawlish & across Brunel's bridge at Saltash.
Travel by TGV-Lyria high-speed train to Geneva, Lausanne, Berne, Basel or Zurich
Train, bus and ferry times for every country in Africa, Asia, America and Australasia are shown in the famous Thomas Cook Overseas Timetable, published every two months.
The tgv-europe.com booking system will book the direct trainhotels Paris-Madrid or Paris-Barcelona, but can't book onwards trains to Malaga or Alicante.
Travel from Odense back to London by City Night Line sleeper train to Cologne, ICE high-speed train to Brussels and see the London to Denmark page for full details.
Wellington-Picton by Interislander ferry
London to Belfast works equally well via Holyhead or Stranraer, see the Northern Ireland page.
The 'Tolstoi' direct sleeper train between Helsinki & Moscow will remain.
A few scenic tourist trains in Switzerland require a seat reservation & small supplement, such as the celebrated Glacier Express & Bernina Express.
Option 2: London to Warsaw via the Paris-Berlin 'Perseus' sleeper train...
Map showing walking route from Braine l'Alleud station to battlefield.
Option 2 overnight via the Paris-Munich City Night Line sleeper train & RailJet: Another good option.
Stopover in Madrid?
Stopover in Vienna?
The GTP is Canada's third trans-continental line, built from Jasper through Prince George to the pacific ocean at the port of Prince Rupert.
Special though fares from London to Switzerland start at '99 return.
On board Irish Ferries ship 'Ulysses' from Holyhead to Dublin
A high-speed AVE leaves Barcelona Sants at 10:00 arriving Zaragoza at 11:50.
The bar car sells Paris metro tickets, which can save time on your return.
Thomas Cook publish an excellent map of train network in Great Britain and Ireland, showing all train routes, scenic routes, ferry routes and places of interest.
A Swiss Transfer Ticket covers one return journey from your point of entry into Switzerland (an airport, frontier or the first stop inside Switzerland of any 'TGV-Lyria' from Paris) to anywhere within Switzerland, using Swiss Federal Railways, private railways and even post buses.
It is a major conduit of arms made there, drugs, people trafficking, etc. This autumn the Russian embargo will really start to bite harder.
Note that www.bahn.de will only book the direct EuroCity trains from Munich to Verona, or the once-daily direct trains to Bologna or Venice.
Venice Simplon Orient Express 'VSOE' runs weekly from London-Paris-Venice with restored British Pullmans and Wagons-Lits sleeping-cars.
ICE3 second class ICE3 first class High-speed ICE3 train from Brussels to Frankfurt ICE3 2nd class.
The excellent direct City Night Line sleeper train 'Borealis' leaves Copenhagen at 18:10 every night for Amsterdam, arriving at Amsterdam Centraal at 09:59 next morning.
Trains run from Dublin Connolly Station to Belfast (2 hours), Sligo (3 hours), Dun Laoghaire, Bray, Wicklow, Wexford and Rosslare.
The Cheakamus canyon, up in the mountains...
In autumn & winter from October 2012 onwards it will return to running only on Monday, Thursday, Friday and Sunday nights.
The same fare covers departure by train from any National Express East Anglia railway station, including Norwich, Cambridge, Ipswich, Bury St Edmunds, Chelmsford, and so on.
Amsterdam to Italy from 69 euros: Amsterdam to Milan, Venice, Florence, Rome...
The best time to use it is in the Indian evening or very early morning, remembering that the Indian reservation system closes down for maintenance overnight 23:30-00:30 India time (18:00-19:00 UK time, as India is 5' hours ahead of UK time).
Edinburgh & Glasgow London to
Swiss railpasses: Swiss railpass (US agency) Swiss transfer ticket: Swiss Transfer Ticket (one return trip from point of entry to any Swiss destination) International railpasses: Beginner's guide to European railpasses
A taxi from Guangzhou East to Guangzhou Main station costs about RMB 30.
Lake Louise: The Rocky Mountaineer passes the beautiful 'log cabin' style station at Lake Louse, on the left on a track slightly lower than the one that westbound trains now use.
UK to Eastern Europe, including Turkey & Greece...
Its magnificent cathedral stands right next to Cologne's main station - the cathedral was consecrated in 1322, but its distinctive 512 feet high towers were only completed in 1880.
Buy SailRail tickets in person at Dublin Connolly station at the main ticket window, open all day, 7 days a week (see photo on the right) or at these Irish Rail stations: Athlone, Ballina, Claremorris, Dublin Connolly, Dundalk, Drogheda, Ennis, Galway, Longford, Mallow, Cork, Tralee, Killarney, Waterford, Wexford, Limerick, Limerick Junction, Mullingar, Sligo, Thurles, Tullamore, Westport.
Option 4: London to Italy via Munich & the scenic Brenner Pass...
The Penang ferry: The Butterworth to Penang ferry, linking the railway station with Georgetown.
Orient Express passengers for London have to leave their sleeping-cars at Calais Maritime and board a ferry for Dover.
London to Copenhagen by Eurostar & the Cologne-Copenhagen City Night Line sleeper - runs daily, the fastest option.
ICE3 second class ICE3 first class High-speed ICE3 train from Brussels to Cologne & Frankfurt ICE3 2nd class.
Cork, Galway, Tralee or Limerick to London costs 60 euros (ship) or 66 euros (Swift fast ferry).
A trip on the Trans-Asia Express...
London-Amsterdam by 'Dutch Flyer' train & ferry service
At Jungfraujoch you'll find restaurants, coffee shop, Europe's highest post office, souvenir shops, the 'sphinx' observatory & observation deck, and 'ice palace' and an open air 'ice plateau'.
Sadly, Rail Europe have just announced that after running for many years their special Snow Train from London to the French Alps will not run in the 2009/10 winter season.
Other Premier Classe routes include Cape Town to Jo'burg, Jo'burg to Durban, Cape Town to Port Elizabeth.
Dutch Flyer (London to Amsterdam SailRail service) London to Amsterdam combined train+ferry service: Times, fares and online booking.
Taxi transfer from Brooklyn Cruise Terminal to Manhattan...
The Bernina Express descending towards Italy...
For Cork, take the daily 19:00 train from Dublin Heuston station arriving Cork at 21:58.
Kicking Horse Canyon: The train calls at Field, an important operating centre for the Canadian Pacific Railway, then heads through the Kicking Horse canyon, crossing and re-crossing the Kicking Horse river several times.
discount on Viking Line ferries Stockholm-Helsinki and Stockholm-Turku.
The high-speed ICE train from Brussels to Cologne takes you across the old coal-mining part of Belgium, green and hilly, passing into Germany at Aachen.
The more direct option from East Anglia or the North of England is to use www.stenaline.co.uk (Harwich-Hoek van Holland), www.dfds.co.uk (Newcastle-IJmuiden overnight cruise ferry), or www.poferries.com (Hull-Rotterdam overnight cruise ferry).
The new TGV-Est high-speed line opened in June 2007, and direct 175 mph German ICE trains now link Paris and Frankfurt in just 3 hours 50 minutes, city centre to city centre.
You can still travel from Paris to Vienna or Budapest by train today, using the Paris-Munich sleeper and connecting Railjet train Munich-Vienna-Budapest, see here.
See www.manche-iles-express.com for fast ferries from Jersey/Guernsey to Di'lette, Barneville-Carteret and Granville in Normandy.
An excellent Rail Map of Great Britain & Ireland is published by Thomas Cook, showing scenic routes, ferry routes and places of interest, buy this using the links on the right.
Train to the Clouds (El Tren a las Nubes) tourist service: This runs from Salta in northern Argentina, see www.trenalasnubes.com.ar and also this report, www.tripadvisor.com/ShowUserReviews-g312822-d313778-r49377372-T rain_to_the_Clouds_El_Tren_a_las_Nubes-Salta_Province_of_Salta_North ern_Argentina.html
Between Kamloops & Vancouver, the 1885 Canadian Pacific (CP) and the later 1917 Canadian National (CN) trans-continental routes run parallel, usually on opposite sides of the river.
In the east of Bolivia, the rail hub is Santa Cruz, and trains go east to the Brazilian border and South to the Argentine border.
The first section of the Istanbul-Ankara high-speed line opened in March 2009, and brand-new air-conditioned 250 km/h high-speed trains (YHT, Y'ksek H?
At the station, the small wooden station building now houses a 'Subway' fast food place, a travel agency, and a small check-in desk for the train.
The Rail Europe Snow Train will not run in winter 2009/10...
London to Oslo by train via Brussels, Cologne & Copenhagen.
Civitavecchia is on the main Genoa-Pisa-Rome rail route, just 81 km (51 miles) north of Rome.
You will need a Belarus transit visa & Russian tourist visa, see the visa section on the Russia page.
Standard sleeper, this time set up as single-berth room Standard sleeper in daytime mode with the seats folded out...
Alternatively, there's a direct Krakow-Prague sleeper train, the 'Silesia', leaving Krakow daily at 21:54 and arriving Prague Hlavni station at 07:50 next morning.
Direct trains run from Southampton to Reading, Oxford, Birmingham, Manchester, Bristol & Cardiff, so you won't have to cross London.
However, they plan to upgrade their existing daytime and overnight conventional ship sailings (at present mainly used by cars & freight vehicles rather than foot passengers).
There is no railway to Beirut, but buses link Damascus with Beirut (Charles Helou bus station), 115km, journey time 5 hours, a whole range buses daily.
For service updates, go to www.b-europe.com, click 'Practical' top right then click 'read more' under '!
Alaris Spain Brand name for air-conditioned high-speed (125 mph) tilting 'Pendolino' trains running from Madrid to Valencia.
Alfa Pendular high-speed tilting trains Lisbon - Porto: Reservation compulsory, fee '5 in both classes.
On 14 November, the new St Pancras International station opened, along with the final section of UK high-speed line that has shaved another 20 minutes off the London-Paris and London-Brussels journey times.
Spain: At Madrid Atocha, Madrid Chamartin, Barcelona Sants, and several other stations.
Viking Line ferry from Stockholm to Turku in Finland 2-berth cabin with shower on board the ferry The connecting train from Turku to Helsinki The Viking Line ferry from Stockholm to Turku.
The Night Riviera sleeper train to Cornwall waits to leave London Paddington Night Riviera sleeper train from London to Cornwall: single-berth sleeper Night Riviera sleeper from London to Cornwall: 2-berth sleeper Shortly before midnight...
Short breaks to Cologne, Berlin, Nice, Prague, Salzburg, Zermatt: www.railbookers.com
Train+ferry fares to Cork, Limerick, Galway etc. include the DART train to Dublin Connolly and a bus (but not the tram) to Dublin Heuston station.
Always book a journey like this as separate stages, in this case London to Paris and back, Paris to Madrid and back, Madrid to Malaga and back.
Brussels to Portugal from 122 euros: Lisbon, Porto, Faro...
Prague to Copenhagen (from '43), Oslo, Stockholm & Scandinavia...
London to Lisbon (via Madrid)
Spend Saturday night in Amsterdam, returning around 16:30 on Sunday afternoon Amsterdam-Brussels-London.
Cologne to Vienna
London to Italy
London to Cyprus.
London to Madrid
Option 1: City Night Line sleeper trains from Paris to Munich, Berlin & Hamburg: An excellent City Night Line sleeper train leaves Paris Est at 20:05 (20:20 at weekends) and arrives next morning in Munich around 07:10, Hamburg 08:37 and Berlin 08:35.
Platinum Service, with a choice of double-bed or twin-bed sleeper compartments with private shower and toilet and extra space even compared to Gold Service.
The Rail Europe system will make train reservations to go with an InterRail pass on many trains in western Europe, including all trains within France, international trains in either direction between France and neighbouring countries (Switzerland, Italy, Spain, Germany, Belgium, Netherlands, Luxembourg), and many other routes, for example from Switzerland to Milan and even principal trains within Italy.
A couple of very minor service exist in certain areas, including the famous scenic 'Copper Canyon' service.
Option 4, London, East Anglia, the North & Scotland to Moscow via Amsterdam: If you live in Scotland, The North or East Anglia, take a ferry to Holland then the direct Amsterdam-Moscow sleeping-car.
Option 2, Europe to Australia via the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Change onto the mainline Kalka Mail leaving Kalka at 23:55 and arriving Delhi (this time old Delhi station) at 06:15.
Eurostar International High speed train service from London to Paris and Brussels via the Channel Tunnel.
The Gare Montparnasse serves TGV trains to the southwest: Toulouse, Bordeaux, Nantes, Biarritz, Lourdes, Brest, Rennes.
Scotland to Brussels by sleeper & Eurostar...
Remember to allow several hours for a safe connection between train and ferry, to include ferry check-in time, transfer from station to port, and to allow for any delay.
In Verona, select 'Verona Porta Nuova'.
A shuttle bus meets the Ulysses & runs to Dublin's main bus station (near Dublin Connolly station) for '2.50 adult, '1.25 child.
In the evening the B station comes alive as no fewer than four busy sleeper trains with both Vietnamese and many western tourists head north to Lao Cai...
Left luggage facilities in Paris Taking your bike or dog
Onward train connection from London to Paris & mainland Europe...
Take a South African train from Komatipoort to Jo'burg.
For example, you can ask for a Paris-Barcelona sleeper reservation at the international booking office in Brussels, or a Milan-Zurich reservation at the ticket office in Berlin.
Alternatively, the Madrid metro (www.metromadrid.es) links Chamartin station with Madrid city centre and Atocha station, though this takes longer.
Also some cross-country routes such as Birmingham to Edinburgh/Glasgow.
A Manx Electric Railway tram at Douglas (Derby Castle) terminus, at the north end of Douglas' 2-mile-long promenade.
This observation/lounge car is reserved exclusively for Sleeper Touring class passengers, and meals in the restaurant car are included in the Sleeper Touring class fare (extra for other passengers).
By sleeper train: The German Railways website www.bahn.de (English button top right) can book the excellent direct City Night Line sleeper trains from Copenhagen (depart 18:10) to Dusseldorf & Cologne (arriving 06:14).
York, Leeds, Birmingham or Hull to Dublin = '34
Day 2, 08:45: The Eastern & Oriental Express arrives at Butterworth, the railway station for the ferry to Georgetown on Penang island, once capital of British Malaya.
The train follows a cultivated river valley between hills covered in houses, and finally rounds a curve into the pleasant little station in Amman.
in Europe
London to Basel or Zurich
London - Tunis via Genoa
London - Riga via Stockholm
London to Basel & Zurich
London to Lausanne, Montreux, Gstaad
London to Poznan & Warsaw
London to Aleppo & Damascus...
London to Dublin & Ireland
London to Limoges & Toulouse
London to Pamplona & Bilbao
Day 2: Transfer to Madrid Atocha station.
Once in Morocco, let the real Marrakech Express speed you south towards the incredible High Atlas mountains...
Hop on the 18:25 high-speed ICE train from Brussels to Cologne, then the excellent City Night Line sleeper train from Cologne to Prague, leaving Cologne at 22:28 and arriving Prague at 09:26 next morning.
Or you can buy a Eurostar ticket to Any Dutch Station, covering Eurostar to Brussels & connecting trains to Rotterdam, Den Haag, Haarlem or Maastricht, change at Rotterdam for Utrecht, Groningen, Arnhem.
Cruises Rhodes/Crete to Cyprus (summer only)...
Corsica / Sardinia France Corsica / Sardinia www.sncm.fr Marseille / Toulon / Nice to
Both cities have a direct train service to Madrid, but Bilbao also has direct trains to San Sebastian, Zaragoza & Barcelona.
Lille Europe station is a modern station astride the London-Paris TGV line on the edge of the city centre.
But now it's reported that the historic 1932 art deco station in Singapore will close by July 2011, with trains transferred to start/terminate at a new station at Woodlands, near the causeway to Malaysia and miles way from Singapore city centre, see this article.
City breaks to Amsterdam by cruise ferry from the north of England or Scotland: www.dfds.co.uk
London to Copenhagen via Paris & Hamburg
London to Madrid via the Paris-Barcelona trainhotel...
InterRail passes also give free travel on Veljekset Salmela bus service Kemi/Tornio-Haparanda (across the top from Sweden into Finland)
Note that the Queen Mary 2 can use any one of four different terminals in Southampton, either the QEII terminal (dock gate 4), City Cruise Terminal (dock gate 10), Mayflower Cruise Terminal (dock gate 10), or the new Ocean Terminal (dock gate 4).
Children aged 0-3 travel free, children aged 4-10 travel at half fare, children aged 11 and over pay the adult fare.
The Lonely Planet range offers an in-depth guide for Hungary or a guide covering all the countries in Eastern Europe.
The Lonely Planet range offers an in-depth guide for Romania or a guide covering all the countries in Eastern Europe.
Switzerland to Brussels...
Budapest to Brussels...
Next we check London-Cologne prices on the Belgian Railways international website www.b-europe.com.
Cool relaxation and colonial charm in this Himalayan hill station from the days of the Raj.
Or take an afternoon Eurostar from London to Paris then the overnight City Night Line sleeper train to Munich or Berlin, city centre to city centre, arriving in time for breakfast.
The train crosses the dramatic Cottonwood bridge, 1,023 feet long and 236 feet high, over a valley full of pine trees with a river racing beneath.
You'll need a Belarus transit visa if you are travelling between London & Moscow on the direct London-Cologne-Berlin-Warsaw-Moscow route, as all the direct trains from Cologne, Berlin or Warsaw to Moscow or St Petersburg pass through Belarus.
La Plagne Aime Buses run by www.autocars-berard.com link Aime with La Plagne, 30-45 minutes, 10.10 euro.
Sleeping-cars from Budapest to Belgrade, and Belgrade to Sofia...
London-Moldova via Warsaw...
London to Interlaken & Jungfrau region
Scotland to Paris or Brussels by sleeper & Eurostar...
You can then take an onward train through the scenic Swiss Alps to Milan, changing at Milan's amazing Centrale station for high-speed trains to Rome, Florence or Venice.
The trains use the existing track, the time is saved by track upgrading, tilting trains, no longer requiring a time-consuming locomotive change at the frontier, and streamlined border checks.
After a day in Amsterdam you'll find a direct City Night Line sleeper train from Amsterdam to Munich, Prague, Dresden, Copenhagen, Poznan or Warsaw, which you can book online at www.bahn.de.
But for the best views (over the top of the occasional sound barrier along the high speed lines!
The Shosholoza Meyl train from Johannesburg has arrived at Cape Town station Cape Town railway station Cape Town station.
Domestic & international trains within and between these countries don't normally require any seat reservation or passholder surcharges, even for premier high-speed inter-city trains like Germany's superb ICE.
Eurostar, Byelorussia, Estonia, France, Greece, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Morocco, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Spain, Turkey, Ukraine, Yugoslavia: Children under 4 go free,
On arrival in Paris, take the metro to the Gare du Nord: Metro line 5 links Paris Nord & Paris Austerlitz, just follow the signs 'M5 direction Bobigny Pablo Picasso'.
Hotels & accommodation in Scotland or London
More West Highland Line scenery: Another view of Loch Treig The Caledonian Sleeper arrives at Fort William.
London to Lisbon, Porto & Portugal .
London - Riga via Berlin & Warsaw
London to Oslo, Bergen & Norway .
London to Rotterdam, Den Haag (The Hague)...
London to Stockholm, Gothenburg & Sweden .
London to Warsaw, Krakow & Poland .
London to Aleppo, Damascus & Syria .
London to Brussels, Bruges & Belgium .
London to Haifa, Tel Aviv & Jerusalem
International trains: Routes operated: Seating plan: More information: Eurostar Brussels to London More info about Eurostar Thalys Brussels to Paris, Amsterdam, Cologne click for seating plan
London to Prague via the Cologne-Prague sleeper The recommended option.
Hotels, hostels & accommodation in Europe
This Paris-Zurich-Chur sleeper train was finally withdrawn in June 2007, when the new TGV-Est high-speed line reduced Paris-Zurich journey time to 4 hours 45 minutes.
Along the Rhine Valley: The Livorno train heads down the Rhine Valley in the early evening, past castles, Rhine river barges & vineyards.
These classy stainless-steel cars once ran between Paris, Brussels & Amsterdam!
A TGV Duplex at Figueres Vilafant station.
This ferry also arrives at the new Hansa Ferry Terminal in the Vuosaari Harbour 16km east of central Helsinki.
On 10 June 2007, the new TGV-Est high-speed line opened and direct French TGVs now link Paris & Stuttgart in 3 hours 40 minutes.
The Europe-Asia obelisk: Approaching Yekaterinburg (known as Sverdlovsk during the Soviet era) at the kilometre post exactly 1,777 km from Moscow, the Rossiya passes the obelisk marking the boundary between Europe & Asia.
Belfast Port (Stena Line terminal) is at the far end of West Bank Road, see map showing Stena Line terminal.
Travel from London to Munich by Eurostar & Paris-Munich City Night Line sleeper train, as shown on the London-Germany page, leaving London at 16:01 (15:31 at weekends), changing trains in Paris and arriving Munich at 07:10 next morning.
The Sala Club (1st class lounge) at Madrid Atocha station.
It's part tunnel, part double-decker road/rail bridge, and on the long bridge section your train seems to 'fly' across the sea to Sweden...
Step 3, buy your Copenhagen-Stockholm or Copenhagen-Gothenburg ticket direct from Swedish Railways.
London to Cornwall by sleeper
Barcelona to Montpelier, Marseille, Cannes, Nice...
French Motorail logo Calais to Avignon, Fr'jus, Nice, Brive, Toulouse, Narbonne...
Next, check prices from London to Cologne at the Belgian Railways international website, www.b-europe.com.
Naples Garibaldi (Circumvesuviana) station is right next to Naples Centrale station where your mainline train arrives, so interchange is easy.
Scotland & the North of England to Germany
At Harwich, the ferry terminal is right next to the station, you walk off the ferry through passport control and onto the station.
A brand-new high-speed line linking Ankara with Konya opened in August 2011.
Stay overnight and continue to Verona, Venice, Florence, Rome or Naples next day by Italian high-speed train.
The Paris-Vienna couchette cars & sleeping-car are attached to a French domestic train between Paris and Strasbourg.
The train travel to Europe page will also link you to agencies selling European train tickets in the USA, Canada, Australia, NZ, Singapore, South Africa, India, Hong Kong and so on.
Station facilities: Brussels Midi isn't my favourite station, I have to admit.
A recent trip to Switzerland aboard the City Night Line 'Pegasus' has allowed me to improve the photos of the couchettes and double-decker sleeping cars used on all the City Night Line sleeper trains, not just on the Germany pages, but on the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Denmark, Greece & Turkey pages.
The direct City Night Line sleeper train 'Phoenix' is easily the best way to travel between Amsterdam and Prague...
Lisbon to Paris & London...
Stockholm to Brussels & London
London to Ibiza, Minorca, Majorca
c = by direct high-speed ICE train between Brussels & Frankfurt, with London Spezial fares from 49 euros available from London to Frankfurt via this service.
London to Prague via the Paris-Berlin sleeper A useful alternative.
Under the CN Tower, 'The Canadian' trans-continental train waits to leave Toronto...
Hop on the 18:25 high-speed ICE train from Brussels to Cologne, then the excellent City Night Line sleeper train from Cologne to Copenhagen, leaving Cologne at 22:28 and arriving in Copenhagen at 10:07 next morning.
Column F is for daily spending on food, local transport, normal museum entrance fees and so on.
Spain, Italy, Portugal, Greece, Malta, Morocco, Eastern Europe or Scandinavia can all be reached easily and affordably by train & ferry.
You can also travel to Moscow by direct sleeping-car from Berlin, Vienna, Prague, Helsinki, Amsterdam and many other places.
London to Any Belgian Station including Bruges, Ghent, Antwerp, Liege: Eurostar tickets to Brussels used to be automatically valid to any station in Belgium, but this arrangement ceased in October 2010.
Change trains at: Crewe Direct Chester Direct Crewe, Chester Direct Chester Chester ------ Crewe Crewe Direct London Euston depart by train: 07:10 09:10 12:10 19:10 06:36 08:50 12:10 18:10 ------ 08:15 11:15 19:05 Holyhead arrive by train: 11:19 12:50 16:14 22:56 11:19 12:56 16:14 22:19 ------ 12:43 15:55 22:59
Munich to Salzburg starts at 19 euros, Munich to Vienna starts at 29 euros.
Laxey station on the Manx Electric Railway The famous Laxey Wheel
Voyagers: London to Chester, Holyhead (for Dublin) click for seating plan More info about UK trains East Coast Trains London - Leeds - York - Newcastle - Edinburgh More info about UK trains First Great Western London-Bristol/Cardiff/Swansea, high-density
Travel to Dublin as shown above, then hop on an Irish inter-city train as follows: * For Belfast, take the daily 19:00 'Enterprise' express from Dublin Connolly station arriving at Belfast Central at 21:15.
London to Cork, Limerick, Galway & all other destinations in Ireland via the Holyhead-Dublin ferry.
On board ICE 1 & ICE 2 (routes include Cologne-Hanover-Berlin)
Special fares on Tallink-Silja Line ferries Stockholm-Helsinki, Stockholm-Turku, Helsinki-Tallinn.
Alternatively, after a day in Amsterdam, excellent City Night Line sleeper trains link Amsterdam with Basel & Zurich in Switzerland, Munich, Prague, Warsaw and Copenhagen.
But on German-run City Night Line overnight trains (for example, Paris to Berlin, Paris to Munich, Amsterdam or Cologne to Prague, Amsterdam or Cologne to Copenhagen), children under 6 go free (although without a berth of their own), children under 15 travel at the 'child' fare (with their own berth).
Also shows train formation for City Night Line sleeper trains such as Amsterdam to Prague, Copenhagen, Warsaw, Munich, Zurich, and Paris to Munich and Berlin.
London to France, London to Monaco Monte Carlo
You can buy tickets from Brussels to other French cities such as Nice, Bordeaux, Lyon at www.b-europe.com: Direct French TGVs also link Brussels with French cities such as Lyon & Marseille, book at the Belgian railways website www.b-europe.com (select 'United Kingdom' for English whatever your country of residence).
Above: A seat in a 'Gold Leaf' double-deck dome car aboard the Rocky Mountaineer is about the best place there is to see Canada's Rocky Mountain scenery...
To book Amsterdam-Munich-Budapest trains, go to the German Railways website www.bahn.de.
London to Fort William by Caledonian Sleeper
Change here for the scenic branch line train along the estuary to pretty St Ives.
Option 2: London to Egypt overland via Paris, Vienna, Istanbul, Syria & Jordan...
If you'd prefer Stena Line's 'Stena Adventurer' then change it to 'Dublin Port (Stena)', or to 'Dublin City' (if you want to include Stena Line's transfer bus to Dublin city centre.
At Hoek van Holland, the ferry terminal is right next to the station.
UK: Rail Europe's Travel Centre on Regent Street closes on 31 January.
on routes from Paddington, Liverpool Street, Kings Cross, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Glasgow, etc. there is an evening peak hour restriction out of London.
Amsterdam to Copenhagen (Denmark) from 43 euros, Oslo (Norway) & Stockholm (Sweden)
Vizzavona: An Ajaccio-Corte-Bastia train at Vizzavona...
A weekly summer ferry service started in 2008, linking southern Portugal (Portimao in the Algarve) with Funchal on Madeira.
Allow plenty of time for the transfer from station to port, and for the ferry check-in.
Once in Cambodia the landscape changes significantly, from urban ribbon development which has stretched almost all the way from Saigon to the border, to far more rural scenes with rice fields and water buffalo.
Recommended London to Dublin service.
Recommended Dublin to London service
The ferry terminal is about 3km (2 miles) from Copenhagen main station in the city centre, taxis & free DFDS shuttle buses are available.
This 'Dutch Flyer' London-Netherlands train & ferry service is a fully-integrated service with special fares from London to Any Dutch Station which cover the train to Harwich, the ferry and onward train to anywhere in the Netherlands, see the Netherlands page for full details.
This option uses the slower but more frequent InterCity trains between Brussels & Amsterdam rather than high-speed Thalys trains.
Probably Britain's most remote station, it's miles from anywhere accessed by a mere track.
The Direct-Orient Express is withdrawn completely, ending all direct service from Paris to Istanbul or Athens.
Make sure you know which of the four possible terminals the QM2 is sailing from, the QEII terminal (dock gate 4), City Cruise Terminal (dock gate 10), Mayflower Cruise Terminal (dock gate 10), or the new Ocean Terminal (dock gate 4).
The ICE is arguably the most comfortable, civilised and impressive high-speed train in Europe, with a very high-spec interior.
By Eurostar London-Lille & direct TGV between Lille, Limoges & Brive.
If you have a Preferente or Club class ticket, you can use the Sala Club (1st class lounge) at Madrid Atocha station just off the first floor departure area (turn right after going through the luggage X-ray check, walk along a bit, then the door it's on your right).
Italy: Rome Termini, Florence SMN, Milan Centrale, Venice Santa Lucia, Bologna, Naples Centrale & other major stations in Italy have a staffed left luggage office, usually open 06:00-24:00 (Florence), 06:00-22:00 (Bologna) or 07:00-23:00 (Rome, Naples).
the London to Fort William Caledonian Sleeper
This option takes over half a day longer than using the direct Paris-Italy sleeper trains, but it's a higher-quality German sleeper train and a very scenic route through the Brenner Pass.
Scheduled ocean liner service between the USA & Europe...
It's worth knowing that there are overnight sleeper trains from Amsterdam Centraal direct to Vienna (Fri, Sat & Sun), Milan (Fri, Sat & Sun), Prague (daily), Munich (daily March-Nov, only Mon, Fri, Sat Sun at other times), Switzerland (daily March-Nov, on Mon, Fri, Sat Sun at other times), Copenhagen (daily), Warsaw (daily) and even Moscow (daily).
The Giant's Causeway in Northern Ireland.
The first section of a brand-new high-speed line from Istanbul to Ankara opened in March 2009, and journey time will be reduced to just 3 hours by 2013, beating both buses & flights.
Alternatively, the FRS fast ferry from Tangier to Tarifa still departs from the old ferry terminal in the heart of Tangier town, and they provide a transfer bus from Tarifa to Algeciras, see www.frs.es.
The trains to Seville, Granada, Malaga leave from Madrid Atocha station (also known as Puerta de Atocha) about 20 minutes walk south of the city centre.
On one or two routes in western Europe, for example Paris-Switzerland and Paris-Italy, the child rate is more expensive than the very cheapest price level of adult advance-purchase fare, if that cheapest adult price happens to be available.
You can take a frequent Taiwan Railway Administration local train from New Zuoying station (in the same building as the Zuoying high speed station) to Kaohsiung main station in the city centre, journey time 10 minutes, or you can take the Kaohsiung Metro (red line), also taking 10 minutes, metro website www.krtco.com.tw.
www.bahn.de: The German railways website can make reservations to go with a railpass on trains within Germany, on international trains to or from Germany such as Zurich-Munich or Berlin-Prague, and on the German City Night Line sleeper trains on routes such as Paris-Berlin, Paris-Munich, Amsterdam-Prague, Amsterdam-Zurich.
Ferry links from Japan to China, Korea & Russia
Travelling to Europe from somewhere other than London?
RailJet is Austria's brand-new high-speed train, linking Munich, Vienna & Budapest.
London to Copenhagen by Harwich-Hoek ferry & the Amsterdam-Copenhagen sleeper train - with a day in Amsterdam.
Don't forget the direct cruise ferries to Spain, Portsmouth to Bilbao or Plymouth/Portsmouth to Santander with www.brittanyferries.co.uk.
Gold Service on the Indian Pacific & The Ghan trains: Roomette in day mode Gold Service on the Indian Pacific & The Ghan trains: Roomette in night mode The drop down sink in a Gold Service roomette
Eurail passes give free travel on Superfast (Attica Group) Bari-Igoumenitsa-Corfu-Patras, Ancona-Igoumenitsa-Corfu-Patras, and on Minoan Lines Venice-Igoumenitsa-Corfu-Patras or Ancona-Igoumenitsa-Corfu-Patras.
ICE3 second class High-speed ICE3 train from Brussels to Cologne & Frankfurt ICE3 2nd class.
Photo courtesy of Matthew Philips The 08:15 'boat train' from Turku Harbour to Helsinki is a double-deck InterCity train.
Option 2, via Zurich: You can also use the direct City Night Line sleeper train from Zurich to Prague.
Journey's end: The main (Larissa) station in Athens, over 2,000 miles from London St Pancras...
Transfer to Stockholm central station.
return London (or any station in the Greater London area): '88 '119 '136 Any rail station in Hampshire or Dorset: '61 '95 '108 Surrey, East & West Sussex, Wilts, Somerset, Devon, Avon, Gwent, Glamorgan Oxfordshire, Berks, Gloucestershire, Worcestershire, Herefordshire: '88 '119 '136 Norfolk, Suffolk, Cambridgeshire, Essex, Kent, Cornwall, Buckinghamshire, Bedfordshire, Hertfordshire, Northamptonshire, Warwickshire, West Midlands, Leicestershire, Shropshire, Staffordshire: '107 '139 '158 Yorks, Lancs, Merseyside, Greater Manchester, Humberside, Lincolnshire, Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire, Cheshire, Powys, Dyfed, Clwyd, Gwyned: '151 '184 '204 Cumbria, Northumberland, Tyne & Wear, Durham: '180 '208 '230 Any rail station in Scotland: '187 '215 '235
BritRail prices & information if you live in Australia or NZ * BritRail prices & information if you live in Asia, Africa, South America
C, D & G trains (modern high-speed daytime & sleeper trains): These are top-quality high-speed trains with ultra-modern air-conditioned coaches and streamlined power-cars at each end.
German Motorail services run from D'sseldorf to Narbonne, Alessandria & Verona in Italy.
onwards: The Orient Express itself continues to run, as the main overnight train between Paris and Vienna, also providing direct through cars between Paris, Budapest & Bucharest.
Buses link Wadi Halfa with Atbara and Khartoum, over new roads.
The reservation lists posted on the platform at Agra Cantonment station.
Option 1 is to book London-Paris and Paris-Munich at www.raileurope.co.uk (UK residents only), then Munich to Verona, Bologna or Venice at the German railways website www.bahn.de.
By daytime TGV from Milan or Turin to Paris: Three daily French railways TGVs link Milan (Porto Garibaldi station) and Turin with Paris.
UK: Rail Europe's Travel Centre on Regent Street has closed.
The Middle East guidebook covers Turkey, Syria, Jordan, Egypt, Iran, Israel and several other countries.
I look forward to new private operator NTV taking over the high speed routes linking Milan, Venice, Florence, Rome & Naples in due course, see www.ntvspa.it.
The Sud Express arrives in Lisbon Oriente station.
Trans-Siberian Railway - how to plan & book train travel from Europe to China & Japan
If you need to transfer from Madrid Atocha to Madrid Chamartin station, see the Atocha to Chamartin transfer advice here.
A good European rail agency can sell you a basic ticket (without reservation) for almost any national or international journey in Europe.
Free WiFi, bars, restaurants, cinema, optional private cabins available on board.
Bus service between Kenya & Uganda
Transfer from bus terminal to station Surat Thani bus terminal depart by bus: 18:10 08:00 Surat Thani station depart by train: 10:40 21:04 Krabi arrive by bus: 21:10 11:00 Bangkok (Hualamphong) arrive: 19:45 08:35
Above: Lakes and forests between Toronto and Winnipeg...
The London-Netherlands by train & ferry section & the London-Netherlands by Eurostar section cover Rotterdam & Den Haag as well as Amsterdam.
Besides the line to Maputo in the south, there are also various rail lines leading inland from Beira in the north of Mozambique.
Option 2, Oslo-Copenhagen by overnight cruise ferry: Alternatively, sail from Oslo to Copenhagen daily by direct overnight cruise ferry with DFDS Seaways.
The link is part tunnel, part double-decker road/rail bridge, and on the long bridge section your train seems to 'fly' across the sea to Sweden....
The new TGV trains from Paris to Strasbourg, Nancy, Metz & Reims feature chic new interiors by designer Christian Lacroix.
Alternatively, www.irishferries.ie sail direct from southern Ireland to northern France, then use www.tgv-europe.com to find onward train times and fares to Paris, picking up the seat61 recommended route there to your final destination.
It passes 'Osprey alley', a long line of osprey nests in the tops of telegraph poles and trees by the lake.
A handful of Eurostars call at Ashford International, which has good direct train connections from Brighton, Hastings, Canterbury, Maidstone, Dover.
Europe to Australia without flying...
The ICE enters Cologne's main station (Hauptbahnhof), right next to the imposing towers of Cologne cathedral.
Train+ferry Britain to Ireland:
Regular high speed tilting 'X2000' trains link Copenhagen with Stockholm, check train times at www.bahn.de.
Phase 1 of the modern standard-gauge metro service called 'Gautrain' is now operational between the Jo'burg suburb of Sandton and Jo'burg's OR Tambo international airport.
Swansea-Cork ferry 'Julia' at Cork A 2-berth cabin on the Swansea-Cork ferry 'Julia' The seafront at Cobh in Cork Harbour, seen from the deck of a Swansea-Cork ferry Fastnetline's new ferry 'Julia', arriving for the first time in Cork Harbour...
Kamloops: Motor coaches pick you up from the hotel and transfer passengers to the station.
InterCity to Cork: An InterCity express train to Cork waits to leave Dublin's Heuston station...
The through sleeping cars to / from Calais are withdrawn and all cars of the Simplon Orient Express now start / terminate in Paris (Gare de Lyon).
You can combine the 3-night Western with either the 2-night Highland or 4-night Highland Classic to make a 5 or 7 night 'Grand tour'.
Arriving at Brussels Midi station...
Overland travel by train & ship from London to Australia
The original 'Alice Spring' at Alice Springs Telegraph station, see the Telegraph station museum website.
Portsmouth is served by direct trains from London (every half hour, journey time 1hour 35 minutes), Cardiff, Bristol, Brighton, Southampton, Reading.
Amsterdam & Cologne to Prague by City Night Line sleeper train.
A railway was first built on Singapore island in 1903, linking the port area with Woodlands in the north of the island, although for the first two decades passengers had to take a ferry from Woodlands across the Johor Strait and board another train to continue their journey up the Malay Peninsula.
Vienna-Salzburg-Munich More info on Railjet ICE 1 to Germany Vienna - Germany More info about ICE ICE 2 to Germany Vienna - Germany More info about ICE ICE 3 to Germany Vienna - Germany More info about ICE Switzerland Domestic trains: Routes operated: Seating plan: More information: No seating plans available for general Swiss train.
You can buy tickets from Paris to over 130 UK towns & cities at www.eurostar.com, including York, Bath, Oxford, Cambridge, Birmingham, Manchester, Leeds, Bristol, one-way or return in either direction.
Take an afternoon Eurostar to Paris and the City Night Line overnight sleeper to Berlin, a train to Rostock on Germany's Baltic coast, then a Tallink or Finnlines ferry from Rostock direct to Helsinki, a 2-night cruise.
TV screens in each car tell you the train's speed, show a map indicating your location, and post a list of next station stops and times.
There are direct high-speed TGV trains from Geneva, Lausanne, Bern, Basel & Zurich to Paris, for example Geneva to Paris in 3 hours 10 minutes, Zurich to Paris 4 hours 10 minutes.
Budapest to Paris...
Paris to Milan
Paris to Irun
Paris to Zurich
Paris to Basel
Paris to Bern
Paris to Geneva
Paris to Lausanne
Paris to Berlin
Paris to Stuttgart
Dover to Paris...
By direct sleeper train: There is an excellent City Night Line sleeper train direct from Amsterdam Centraal to Basel & Zurich in Switzerland, leaving around 20:30 and arriving in Zurich around 08:20 next morning.
Paris to Spain from 68 euros: Paris to Madrid, Barcelona, Seville, Granada, Alicante...
Paris to Portugal from 114 euros with sleeper: Paris to Lisbon, Faro, Porto...
Switzerland to Germany: Switzerland to Berlin, Hamburg, Cologne & Germany from 39 euros...
The two daytime Paris-Turin-Milan Artesia TGVs are replaced by three Paris-Turin-Milan TGVs run entirely by SNCF with no Trenitalia involvement.
Between Chur and Samedan near St Moritz, the Bernina Express shares the route with its sister train, the Glacier Express, crossing the famous Landwasser Viaduct from mountainside to mountainside, on which many of the Glacier Express's and Bernina Expresses PR photos are taken.
Hiking, walking, sea kayaking, canoeing & family activity holidays in Scotland: Wilderness Scotland...
So why not by-pass London by taking the overnight ferry to Holland, spend some time in Amsterdam, then hop on a train to Germany?
Fares from Amsterdam to Germany start at just 19 euros.
France page: The daily Lille-Limoges-Brive direct TGV, so handy for travellers from the UK to Brive, has been reduced to running only 4 times a week, Thursday-Sunday outwards, Friday-Monday back.
On one or two routes in western Europe, for example Paris-Switzerland & Paris-Italy, the child rate is more expensive than the very cheapest price level of adult advance-purchase fare, if that cheapest adult price happens to be available.
The new TGV Est high-speed line will open on 10 June 2007, slashing Paris-Strasbourg journey time from 4 hours to just 2 hours.
Glacier Express 2nd class seats The Glacier Express seen at Brig, Switzerland
The 'Night Riviera' sleeper train from London to Penzance, Cornwall
Travel from Prague to Cologne by City Night Line sleeper train, leaving Prague Hlavni station at 18:29 or Prague Holesovice station at 18:38 and arriving in Cologne at 06:14 next morning.
The new high-speed line from Cordoba to Malaga opened in December 2007, cutting Madrid-Malaga journey time to 2 hours 40 minutes by AVE train.
Rosslare is handy for Wexford & Waterford, but not well connected to Cork or Limerick.
Travel overnight from Cologne to Copenhagen on the City Night Line sleeper train 'Borealis', leaving Cologne daily at 22:28 and arriving next morning in Copenhagen main station at 10:07.
Brussels to Spain from 107 euros with sleeper: Madrid, Barcelona, Seville, Granada, Alicante...
The second option is to take an afternoon Eurostar to Brussels, a high-speed Thalys or ICE train to Cologne and the daily overnight Cologne-Copenhagen City Night Line sleeper train as far as Odense, see the London to Denmark page.
Madras (Chennai) An even older colony than Bombay or Calcutta, in Southern India.
First book the Cologne-Vienna sleeper train leaving Cologne around 20:05 using either the German railways website www.bahn.de or the Austrian railways website www.oebb.at.
The same special fare from London is valid from any National Express East Anglia station, for example Norwich, Cambridge, Romford, Ilford, Ipswich.
Tickets can be bought from any station in Britain to any station in Ireland, covering both train to Holyhead, ferry to Dublin, and onward trains within Ireland.
Daytime options: Direct InterCity and ICE trains link Basel, Zurich, Interlaken to various cities in Germany.
This website will tell you the best routes, train times & approximate fares from London to major destinations all over Europe.
Alternatively, there are regular freight ships between Europe & North America which carry a limited number of passengers.
Day 1, travel overnight from Copenhagen to Cologne by City Night Line sleeper train 'Borealis', leaving Copenhagen main station daily at 18:20 and arriving Cologne at 06:14 next morning.
How to travel from Europe to Canada by ship
Munich to Budapest starts at 39 euros one-way.
They used to operate a service to Bologna, this is switched to Alessandria from 2010 onwards, due to Bologna being rebuilt for high-speed trains.
High-speed ICE3 train from Brussels to Cologne & Frankfurt ICE3 second class ICE3 first class An ICE to Cologne & Frankfurt waiting to leave Brussels Midi.
Cruise overnight from Newcastle to Amsterdam with DFDS Seaways, then take direct sleeper trains to Munich, Zurich, Vienna, Milan, Copenhagen, Warsaw or Prague...
The source is The Observer, 29/01/06,except for London-Paris (taken from independent research commissioned by www.eurostar.com), London-Dublin & London-Amsterdam.
Alternative seating plan More info about TGV TGV Atlantique All Paris-Nantes, Bordeaux, Lourdes, Irun TGVs More info about TGV TGV Est Paris-Reims, Nancy, Metz, Strasbourg TGVs click for seating plan More info about TGV Intercit's de jour (T'oz) Paris-Limoges-Toulouse, Bordeaux-Toulouse-Marseille-Nice More info about T'oz Intercit's de Nuit (Lun'a) French domestic overnight trains (all routes) More info French night trains International trains: Routes operated: Seating plan: More information: Eurostar Paris to London More info about Eurostar Thalys Paris to Brussels, Amsterdam, Cologne click for seating plan
In this direction the ferry sails by day, leaving Portsmouth Continental Ferry Port at 09:00 and arriving in St Peter Port (Guernsey) at 16:30 & St Helier (Jersey) at 19:30.
I've created a new, larger and (hopefully) clearer map of train routes in Southeast Asia with connecting bus and ferry routes, and made it interactive so that clicking on any train, bus or ferry route takes you to the relevant part of the relevant page.
Simply use the online booking form above to check times & prices & buy SailRail tickets from Manchester, Birmingham, Leeds, Edinburgh, Cambridge, in fact any railway station in Britain to or from Dublin Port (Irish Ferries) or Dublin Port (Stena).
The Amtrak station at Williams is William Junction, a halt in the woods some 3 miles from downtown Williams, but a Grand Canyon Railway shuttle bus meets all Amtrak trains and transfers passengers to/from the original Williams railway station in downtown Williams.
L'beck is a good place for an early dinner, there are plenty of bars and restaurants in the old town just 5 minutes walk from the bus station.
Malta: Phone box on Palace Square, Valetta.
Option 2, London - Romania via Brussels & Vienna...
An S100 AVE train to Seville at Madrid Atocha The Sala Club (1st class lounge) at Madrid Atocha station.
French Railways (SNCF) self-service ticket machine at Paris Gare de Lyon
This is the simplest, cheapest & most time-effective option, using the daily City Night Line sleeper train between Paris & Munich.
Top tips for changing trains in Brussels Buying connecting train tickets from other UK towns & cities Left luggage in London & Amsterdam
Cologne Hauptbahnhof (main station) is located right in the city centre, right next to Cologne Cathedral with its distinctive twin towers and a stone's throw from the banks of the River Rhine.
Map showing train & ferry routes from London & Paris to Athens & Greece...
Santa Lucia railway station in Venice...
and after summiting the pass, the Bernina Express descends towards Italy...
Whistler Sea to Sky' (formerly the 'Whistler Mountaineer'): As well as the three Rocky Mountaineer routes, the same company runs a daily 74-mile, 3-hour scenic train service linking Vancouver (North Vancouver, across the Lion's Gate Bridge) with the resort town of Whistler.
Ferries to Orkney and the Shetland Islands (Scrabster-Stromness and Aberdeen-Lerwick), www.northlinkferries.co.uk.
London to Antwerp, Ghent, Liege & other destinations in Belgium...
The Orient Express's Paris-Vienna seat cars, couchette cars & sleeping-car were transferred to this train when it ran.
Mallaig fishing boats and lifeboat The CalMac ferry from Mallaig to Skye
South of Mafraq there is more desert, a river, bridges (including one rebuilt after being blown up by Lawrence in 1917) and a few hours later the train reaches the suburbs north of Amman.
This issue affects all systems based on the French reservation system, including raileurope.co.uk, raileurope.com, eurostar.com, voyages-sncf.com, tgv-europe.com.
From the West Country or South Coast to Italy, avoiding London
Whistler Mountaineer vintage observation car, open to all passengers Whistler service seating
Lille's mayor was proved right, as over the last decade since the line was built it has transformed Lille's economy, from run-down mining town to vibrant city of northern France.
Cruise the West Highland Line in luxury: The Royal Scotsman cruise train...
The famous clock on Prague's main square Prague main square Your carriage awaits...
Buses then run from Portrush (just outside the railway station) to the Giant's Causeway every few hours.
Travel from Cologne to Brussels by high-speed ICE train, leaving Cologne at 11:43 and arriving Brussels Midi at 13:35.
Leave Hoek van Holland Haven at 08:10, change Rotterdam, and arrive Antwerp at 10:00 or Brussels Midi at 10:42.
Another picture of the Glacier Express in the Rhine Gorge...
Travel tip: In Rotterdam, the sprinter from Hoek van Holland normally arrives at platform 1 and the train to Amsterdam & Den Haag normally leaves from platform 8 or 9.
The most usual, easiest and fastest route to any of these cities from London, Birmingham or Manchester is by train to Holyhead, ferry to Dublin, then onward Irish train from Dublin Heuston station to Cork, Galway, Limerick, Tralee or from Dublin Connolly station to Sligo or Wicklow.
Map of train routes in Southeast Asia
The Bernina Express climbing up the Bernina Pass...
Onwards to Switzerland, Italy, Germany, Austria or wherever by high-speed train: At Hoek van Holland, you collect your dog from the kennels and walk off the ship, through passport control and straight onto the station for the frequent Sprinter train to Rotterdam.
The Thomas Cook Rail Map of Europe is easily the best and most comprehensive map of train routes all over Europe.
The crossing takes just 90 minutes, you sail into the wonderful Valletta harbour and arrive at the Valletta ferry terminal which is walking distance from Valletta city centre.
Down at the side of Loch Shiel, a monument commemorates Bonnie Prince Charlie raising his standard here in August 1745.
A taxi from Dublin port to central Dublin will cost 15 euros to most central area hotels or Dublin Connolly station, about 17 euros to Dublin Heuston station, journey time about 25 minutes.
Click for map of train routes in southern Africa
At Fishguard Harbour, you walk off the train and onto the Stena Line ferry 'Stena Europe'.
Option 1: London - Belfast via Dublin
Option 2: London - Belfast via Cairnryan
Option 2: London - Moscow via Warsaw
Option 3: London - Moscow via Berlin
The Gare de l'Est serves trains to the east: Nancy, Strasbourg, Reims, Frankfurt, Munich, Stuttgart, sleepers to Berlin, Hamburg, Munich, Moscow * The Gare de Lyon serves TGV trains to the south-east: Lyon, Avignon, Marseille, Cannes, Nice, Monte Carlo, N'mes, Montpellier, Narbonne, Perpignan, Turin, Milan, Geneva, Bern, Lausanne, Basel, Zurich.
TGV Lyria high-speed trains link central Paris with key Swiss cities including Geneva (3 hours 10 minutes), Lausanne, Basel (3 hours 30 minutes), Bern (4 hours 30 minutes) & Zurich (4 hours 5 minutes).
Brussels to Switzerland: Basel, Zurich & beyond...
The sleeper from London arrives at Fort William terminus at 09:54.
Option 1, direct Zurich-Basel-Brussels EuroCity trains: There are There are two daily EuroCity trains direct from Zurich and Basel to Brussels, book at the Swiss Railways site www.sbb.ch and collect tickets at the station in Switzerland.
Direct high-speed TGV trains link Paris with Luxembourg in 2 hours 15 minutes, several times daily.
The train passes the BC Hydro Bridge River hydro electric plant and a timber yard.
You wake to grassy steppe covered in early morning dew, approaching Ulan Bator.
If you book several months in advance you can find really cheap fares available, much cheaper than with Rail Europe, rising to pretty much the same level as Rail Europe closer to departure.
A good alternative is to take Eurostar to Paris, the excellent City Night Line sleeper train overnight to Berlin, then a direct Berlin-Ky'v sleeper train called the 'Kashtan'.
French Motorail was operated by Rail Europe through their parent company SNCF (French Railways).
The Overlander heads on to finish it's run at Wellington's imposing railway station, opened in 1937 and a stone's throw from the New Zealand Parliament buildings and city centre.
The famous & fabulous Venice Simplon Orient Express runs from London to Venice, usually running once a week from March to November.
Scotland & north of England to Italy by ferry from Hull or Newcastle
Corsica: Corsica can easily be reached by comfortable ferry from a variety of ports in Southern France, including Marseille, Toulon or Nice.
Option 2: London-Bratislava via the Paris - Munich sleeper...
Option 2, by 'Dutch Flyer' train & ferry via Harwich-Hoek van Holland: Option 2 is to catch a train to London (or changing at Peterborough, cross-country to Harwich) then take the comfortable overnight 'Dutch Flyer' train & ferry service from London to Amsterdam via Harwich-Hoek van Holland as explained in detail above.
It's in fact two stations in one, with platforms 6 to 11 on the east-west elevated tracks well above ground level, and platforms 1 to 5 serving the north-south tracks on a below-ground level.
Look out for West Point Military Academy on the far bank, Storm King Mountain (pictured above left) and Bannerman's Island.
Traveller Lenny Hartley travelled from Phnom Penh to Siem Reap by river boat (2010): 'Most hotels and travel agents in Phnom Penh will book you a ticket which includes pickup by Tuk Tuk driver to the embarkation port just a short distance away from the main tourist riverside area of Phnom Penh.
Having experienced the Royal Scotsman, I have to say that it's a pretty unbeatable combination of superb scenery on Britain's most amazing train routes, country-house all-inclusive luxury with great food, wine & service plus some extremely well-chosen off-train excursions.
Pictured right: The Stadthuys (town hall), church and clock tower on Malacca's main square.
At Holyhead, the ferry terminal is right next to the station.
At Hoek, the ferry terminal is right next to the station.
A 3-course evening meal in the restaurant car, complete with aperitif of sherry or sparkling cava, wine, coffee & liqueurs, is included in the Gran Clase fare, as is breakfast next morning.
Irish Ferries 'Dublin Swift' from Holyhead to Dublin.
Change at Lancaster for onward trains to Manchester, Glasgow, Birmingham & London.
A Lyria TGV train to Paris, about to leave Geneva TGV Lyria first class - Paris to Lausanne, Geneva & Bern routes TGV Lyria 2nd class - Paris to Geneva/Bern/Lausanne routes A high-speed Lyria TGV at Geneva.
Remember to allow plenty of time (90 minutes+) for interchange between ferry and railway station at the French port.
At Hoek van Holland, the station is right outside the ferry terminal.
The separate branch line to Oban wasn't originally part of the Glasgow-Fort William-Mallaig line at all, it had its own route from Glasgow via Callander, opened in1880 and operated by the rival Caledonian Railway.
Far right: The new passenger rail station at Santiago de Cuba.
London, East Anglia, North of England, Scotland to Moscow using the ferry alternatives...
Now try this again, but this time click 'via' and entering 'Lille', as this will show any available journeys with a convenient same-station change in Lille rather than having to change trains and stations in Paris by metro.
The German City Night Line sleeper train company will reinstate the direct Paris-Hamburg sleeper train withdrawn a few years ago, once more giving the chance to leave London in the afternoon and arrive Hamburg in time for business next day.
Dublin Connolly station (for trains to Belfast, Sligo, Wicklow) is 2 minutes walk round the corner from the bus station.
Avalanche Alley, along the Fraser River...
In the summer tourist season from June to October it also has 'Sleeper Touring class' sleeping-cars and a 1955-vintage stainless-steel observation dome/lounge car at the back, like the one attached to the rear of the 'Canadian'.
The food is surprisingly good: The herb-roast chicken & rice ($14) was a good choice, and for breakfast next morning a cooked breakfast of eggs, bacon & potatoes ($9 including fruit juice & coffee) hits the spot.
Eurostar Italia & Eurostar City trains: There's a '10 compulsory seat reservation charge for passholders on all high-speed Frecciarossa, Frecciargento and Frecciabianca trains, linking Milan, Florence, Rome, Naples, Venice, Verona, Turin.
The Paris to Geneva, Lausanne, Bern route...
TV screens in each car tell you the train's speed & location, with a list of next station stops and times.
Your 'Dutch Flyer' ticket from London to Any Dutch station covers this section, no reservation is necessary, just hop on any train.
China to Taiwan: New direct ferry, mainland to mainland...
Golden Trains private tourist sleeping-cars, Saigon-Nha Trang: Trains SNT1 & SNT2 have 'Golden Trains' tourist sleeping-cars attached between Saigon and Nha Trang.
Relaxing in the StenaPlus lounge on board the ferry 'Stena Europe' from Fishguard to Rosslare At Fishguard, the little 2-car train arrives right alongside the Stena Line ferry 'Stena Europe' for Rosslare.
Most of this train consists of privately-run sleeping-cars for tourists, including Fanxipan, King, Ratraco, Orient Express, Royal, TSC, Tulico and several others, see the tourist sleeper section below.
Indeed, fans of the film 'Casablanca' will find it a far more plausible setting for Rick, Elsa, Captain Renault and Major Strasser than the big and unremarkable city to the south.
Travel from Paris to Turin or Milan by high-speed Paris-Italy TGV, leaving Paris Gare de Lyon daily at 14:41 and arriving Turin Porta Susa at 20:13 and Milan Porto Garibaldi at 21:45.
London to Copenhagen by Eurostar & the Paris-Hamburg City Night Line sleeper train - another convenient option.
Then see the Irish Rail website, www.irishrail.ie, for train times from Dublin to Cork, Limerick, Galway, Sligo, Wicklow, Kilkenny or Tralee.
Silver Leaf service was introduced in 2011, and it's only available on the Vancouver-Banff/Calgary 'First Passage to the West' route, only on some departures as an upgrade from Red Leaf service.
Buy tickets online: You can buy one-way or return tickets from Amsterdam or any Dutch station to London or any Greater Anglia Railway station online at Stena Line's Dutch website www.stenaline.nl/ferry/londen/.
There is a direct City Night Line sleeper train from Prague to Copenhagen, leaving Prague Hlavni at 18:29 and arriving in central Copenhagen at 10:07 next morning.
I paid '200 return by train+ferry for me, my wife and 10-month old Nate from London to any Dutch station, which included a private cabin on the ferry in each direction.
International train, bus & ferry routes from China
For example, ask Rail Europe for a fare from Berlin to Cologne, and they will quote you the international tariff rate made available to all other railways by the German Railways.
The TGV trains from Paris to Munich feature chic interiors by designer Christian Lacroix.
Every day, three high-speed TGV trains run by SNCF French Railways link Paris with Turin and Milan, with onward connections to Florence, Venice, Rome and Naples.
Bus 101 run by First Bus also links St Austell bus station with the Eden Project approximately hourly 08:50-15:50, see www.firstgroup.com/ukbus/southwest/devon/timetables.
Take a train from London Liverpool Street to Harwich...
Buying RailSail tickets from Dublin to London at Dublin Connolly station
Ferries from both Naples & Sorrento arrive at Capri's busy Marina Grande, there's a funicular railway up the steep hillside to Capri town itself.
You can get a free tourist map from the tourist information kiosk in the middle of Brussels Midi station concourse near the exit from the Eurostar terminal.
The bus station is directly across the road (well, around the roundabout) from Algeciras railway station, behind the Octavio Hotel.
For Verona or Venice: Travel from Milan to Verona or Venice by Eurostar City train.
Day 2: Travel from Copenhagen to Stockholm by X2000 high-speed tilting train, leaving Copenhagen at 11:37 and arriving in Stockholm at 16:50.
Bosphorus ferry View over Istanbul from the Galata Tower Above: Ferries sail frequently across the Bosphorus from Europe side to Asia.
Budapest to Sofia via Belgrade:
It will now also book the international trainhotels in either direction between Paris & Madrid, Paris & Barcelona, Madrid & Lisbon, Barcelona & Zurich, Barcelona & Milan, with self-print tickets.
There are two daily high-speed trains from Bilbao Abando station to Valladolid & Madrid, journey time to Madrid 4 hours 50 minutes, and two direct daily trains to Zaragoza & Barcelona, journey time, 6 hours 40 minutes, see www.renfe.com for times, fares & online booking.
At Nairobi station...
But if a long-haul flight is unavoidable to reach India in the first place, try Virgin Atlantic who now fly from the UK to India, a good choice for both price and service.
There is also a Montreal-Gasp' portion of this train, using 1950s stainless steel cars, attached three times a week.
You can make the journey in either direction, between Vancouver and either Banff (a resort town in the Rockies) or Calgary (a major city just east of the Rockies).
Step 2: Still on www.raileurope.co.uk or www.tgv-europe.com, click 'continue shopping' and book the Eurostar from London to Paris and back.
The ferry to Spain: The indoor swimming pool on Brittany Ferries Pont Aven The ferry to Spain: A standard 2-berth cabin on Brittany Ferries Pont Aven The indoor swimming pool on Brittany Ferries superb 'Pont Aven'.
First, use www.bahn.de to book a ticket on the direct City Night Line sleeper train 'Phoenix' from Prague to Cologne leaving Prague Hlavni at 18:29 and arriving Cologne at 06:14 next morning.
They use the French Railways reservation system, so are good for journeys to France and via France to major cities in Spain, Italy, Switzerland and Austria.
Changing trains at Brussels (Midi/Zuid station) is easy.
Motorail trains carry cars, motorbikes, small trailers & roof boxes, and on many routes you can now take some over-height 4x4 vehicles & people carriers.
TGV Lyria first class - Paris to Lausanne, Geneva & Bern routes TGV Lyria 2nd class - Paris to Geneva/Bern/Lausanne routes The 186 mph Lyria TGV from Paris to Geneva, Lausane, Bern...
Virgin Atlantic Airlines has direct non-stop flights from Beijing, Shanghai or Hong Kong to London, a great choice for both price and service.
The famous 'Canadian' trans-continental train links Vancouver & Toronto three times a week, via Jasper, Edmonton & Winnipeg.
They can sell 'SailRail' train & ferry tickets from any Irish station to any British station.
The City Night Line sleeper train 'Phoenix' from Prague to Amsterdam, at Prague Hlavni station Take the train from Amsterdam to Prague!
Transfer from Tanger Med Port to Tangier town.
On arrival at Harwich International, you'll need to cycle round from the station to the motorists' terminal to board the ferry via the vehicle ramp.
December 2010 Interviewed briefly about high-speed rail by Richard Quest on CNN Europe.
The Gare du Nord serves trains to the north: Lille, Amiens, Boulogne, Calais, Dunquerque, London, Brussels, Antwerp, Rotterdam, Amsterdam, Cologne.
You can buy a train+ferry ticket from any mainland UK railway station to Belfast, Londonderry, or any Northern Irish railway station via Holyhead.
Travel from Hendaye to Paris by high-speed TGV, leaving Hendaye at 07:40 and arriving in Paris Gare Montparnasse at 13:40.
The Irish Ferries website now sells cheap SailRail tickets from any Irish rail station to any British rail station, although it's a good idea to read these booking tips first.
North of England & Scotland to Amsterdam by ferry
SNCF has two overseas subsidiaries, Rail Europe Inc in North America (raileurope.com & raileurope.ca) and Rail Europe 4A in Australia, Asia, Africa, South America (raileurope.com.au, .co.nz, .co.za, .co.in, etc) which are unfortunately (how can I put it politely?
Take Eurostar to Brussels, and make a simple same-station change onto a high-speed Thalys train to Rotterdam, The Hague or Amsterdam Centraal.
Option 1: London to Belgrade via Paris, Munich & Budapest
Option 1, London to Romania via Paris, Munich & Budapest...
Buy tickets online (recommended): www.dutchflyer.co.uk sells one-way or return train+ferry tickets from London or any Greater Anglia railway station to Amsterdam or any Dutch station.
London to Zurich starts at '62 one-way, '124 return.
London to Paris starts at '39 one-way, '69 return.
London-Stockholm by cruise ferry to Denmark then train.
In the East, comfortable XPT trains link Sydney with Melbourne & Brisbane at affordable prices, and Queensland Railways links Brisbane with Townsville & Cairns.
How to choose a rail pass (Rail Europe Aust)
But Eurail Poland & Eurail German-Poland passes are valid on:
Lounge car, Brisbane to Cairns on the Sunlander train Restaurant car on the Brisbane-Cairns Sunlander train
Russian fares vary by season, higher in summer, lower in winter, the ones below are for February 2012, summer fares will be a few percent higher.
Another 'cruise' train operating on various routes in Southern Africa and into neighbouring countries is www.shongololo.com.
The new Paris to Figueres service is operated by impressive 186mph TGV Duplex double-decker high-speed trains.
Year-round ferry Turkey-Cyprus: Salamis Lines Greece-Cyprus, currently suspended, UK agent www.viamare.com.
On the return journey from Hellfire Pass, get the taxi to drop you at Nam Tok station in time for the 15:15 passenger train along the scenic Kwae Noi river, over the Wampo Viaduct and across the Bridge back to Kanchanaburi.
Cornwall to Paris or Brussels by sleeper+Eurostar...
Dialling code +66 Map of train routes in Southeast Asia
Local train service Daily Riga station depart 13:15 Tallinn station depart 06:46 Valga (on Latvian train) arrive 16:35 Valga arrive (on Estonian train) arrive 11:35 Valga (on Estonian train) depart 16:47 Valga depart (on Latvian train) depart 11:44 Tallinn station arrive 21:49 Riga station arrive 15:03
A new twice-weekly overnight train started running in early March between Mersin & Adana in southern Turkey and Aleppo in Syria.
This is very short-sighted, as Tangier is the intriguing and atmospheric city where Europe meets Africa.
Connection to Bologna, Florence & Rome: The Paris-Florence-Rome sleeper train run by Artesia ceased running on 10 December 2011.
Connection from Rome, Florence & Florence: The Rome-Florence-Paris sleeper train run by Artesia ceased running on 10 December 2011.
Read this illustrated blog about travelling on the Sunlander, with photos of first class and economy sleepers Club car on Queensland Railways' Spirit of the Outback Queensland Railways' Spirit of the Outback at Emerald
The Central Wales Line from Shrewsbury to Swansea, through pretty Welsh countryside...
Calgary / Banff to Vancouver...
Switzerland to Italy: Switzerland to Milan, Venice, Florence, Rome & Italy from CHF34 (19 euros)...
Switzerland to Warsaw & Krakow...
Italy to Warsaw & Krakow...
Stockholm to Copenhagen & Oslo
Budapest to Warsaw, Bucharest, Belgrade...
Paris to Venice or Verona
Scotland & Newcastle to Amsterdam
Tunis to Carthage & Marsa
Cairo to Khartoum (Sudan) .
Singapore to Butterworth (Penang) *
Kuala Lumpur to Butterworth (Penang):
Brittany Ferries 'Bretagne' at Portsmouth...
Frankfurt - cologne - Amsterdam More info about ICE InterCity (IC) to Amsterdam Berlin-Hanover-Amsterdam click for seating plan - TGV to Paris Munich - Stuttgart - Paris click for seating plan More info about TGV Railjet Munich - Vienna - Budapest click for seating plan More info about Railjet City Night Line sleeper trains Cologne to Prague, Copenhagen
Map showing station & ferry terminal locations in Penang & Butterworth
London to Genoa, Cinque Terre & La Spezia
It's worth hiring a car for a few days to visit some of the wine regions nearby, including the famous Barossa Valley, see www.barossa-valley-australia.com.au.
The TGV trains from Paris to Basel & Zurich feature chic interiors by designer Christian Lacroix.
In the other direction, a bus leaves Waterford bus station at 07:00 daily, arriving Rosslare Europort ferry terminal at 08:25, in time for the 09:00 ferry.
Malta is linked to Sicily by car-carrying catamarans of Virtu ferries, www.grimaldi-lines.com also operates a weekly cruise ferry from Genoa, Civitavecchia (near Rome) and Catania to Valetta, Malta.
Intercit's de Nuit routes include Paris to Lourdes, Cannes, Nice, Narbonne, Perpignan, Toulouse, and the Spanish frontier at Irun & Portbou.
Brittany Ferries operates several direct ferry routes from the UK to Spain with ships capable of 27 knots, so the crossing time from Portsmouth to northern Spain takes just 24 hours.
The Whistler Mountaineer links Vancouver (north Vancouver station) with the resort town of Whistler, daily, mid-April to mid-October.
In autumn & winter from October 2012 onwards it will return to running only on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Sunday nights.
However, in most cases these platforms are not accessed from the main 'A' station building on Le Duan street, but from the 'B' station building on Tran Quay Cap street on the far side of the tracks.
Plus points: This is German Railways' excellent UK telesales office, good for tickets from London to Germany as they use German Railways' reservation computer and can access all German Railways' special offers.
Southampton's historic Ocean Terminal: Cunard no longer use the traditional and historic Ocean Terminal dock, from which the original Queen Mary, Queen Elizabeth and even Titanic would have sailed.
Travel from Ventimiglia to Genoa by InterCity train leaving Ventimiglia at 10:58 and arriving San Remo 11:15 & Genoa (Piazza Principe, the main station) at 13:06.
You can buy through tickets from Brussels to 130 UK towns & cities at www.eurostar.com, including York, Bath, Oxford, Cambridge, Birmingham, Manchester, Leeds, Bristol , one-way or return in either direction.
London, East Anglia to Budapest via Harwich-Hoek van Holland - the ferry alternative to Eurostar.
London to Europe .
There lakes, waterfalls and small villages whose lifeblood and commerce seems to be this train line.
But if a long-haul flight is unavoidable to reach China in the first place, try Virgin Atlantic who fly direct from London to Beijing, Shanghai or Hong Kong, a great choice for both price and service...
Once in Germany, bicycles are carried on most InterCity (IC) trains, but not on high-speed ICE trains, for a small fee of about 9 euros, providing you make a prior reservation for your bicycle.
New York - Chicago daily (959 miles, one night), with through cars Boston - Chicago daily.
The Queen Mary 2's bridge...
Option 4: London to St Petersburg by train to Stockholm then direct cruise ferry...
One service leaves Taipei, via Hualien, Taitung on the eastern mainline, around south coast and return to Taipei via western mainline in clockwise direction (train number 2080), the other goes anti-clockwise via the western mainline first, around the south coast and along the eastern mainline back to Taipei (train number 2079).
The Lonely Planet range offers an in-depth guide for Romania and Moldova or a guide covering all the countries in Eastern Europe.
It's a very scenic run down the Hudson River valley, past West Point Military Academy, Storm King Mountain and Bannerman's Island.
You pass many cattle ranches, and can spot many deer in the wooded areas.
India Indian Railways www.indianrail.gov.in The UK agent for Indian Railways, including Indian rail passes, is the excellent SD Enterprises in Wembley.
or book with www.railbookers.com, one-way Orient Express, 4 or 5-star hotel in Venice, return by scheduled train...
Tripadvisor Laos page Map of train routes in Southeast Asia
Option 1: Use the excellent Dutch Flyer train & ferry service from London to Amsterdam overnight, then onward trains to Belgium, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Italy, Germany, Austria, Eastern Europe & Scandinavia...
As the buses used to be: Brightly-painted Maltese buses at Valletta bus station, just outside the city's main gate.
London to Jersey & Guernsey
It will also slash Paris-Basel journey time from 5 hours to 3.5 hours, and Paris-Stuttgart to 3.5 hours too.
The same special fare from London is valid from any National Express East Anglia station, for example Norwich, Cambridge, Romford, Ilford or Ipswich.
Runs daily except Tue & Wed, 18 May-26 Sept 2012 Runs daily except Tue & Wed, 18 May-26 Sept 2012 Vancouver hotel pick-up by coach: 06:15-06:45 Coach transfer from Whistler hotels: 14:15-14:45 Vancouver (North) depart by train: 07:30 Whistler depart: 15:00 Whistler arrive by train: 11:30 Vancouver (North) arrive: 19:00 Coach transfer to Whistler village: 11:45-12:00 Coach transfer to Vancouver hotels
Option 3: London to Ljubljana or Lake Bled via Venice...
Eastbound journey:Westbound journey:London to Brussels by EurostarDate:Minsk to Cologne by direct Belarus sleeping-car'Date:[Fill in the date]Time:12:58/14:34Time:06:25Class:2nd classAccom:3-berth sleeper 1Brussels to Cologne by ThalysDate:Same dayCologne to Brussels by ThalysDate:Next dayTime:17:28/18:25Time:07:43Class:2nd classClass:2nd classCologne to Minsk by direct Belrus sleeping-car'Date:Same dayBrussels to London by EurostarDate:Later next dayTime:22:28Time:11:29/12:29Accom:3-berth sleeper 1Class:2nd class1 = The choice is between a berth in a 1, 2 or 3 bed sleeper.
A major change is the opening of TGV-Est, with new high speed trains between Paris and Strasbourg, Basel, Zurich, Luxembourg, Stuttgart, Munich and Frankfurt.
This 'Blue Peter' Orient Express special gives a pretty good idea of what a journey from Venice to London is like aboard the Venice Simplon Orient Express...
London to Lake Bled & Ljubljana
This section is covered by your 'Dutch Flyer' Any Dutch Station to London ticket.
Transfer by bus or metro to Stockholm central station.
Option 3 London to Vienna in a day, by high-speed train across Europe.
Option 3, London to Vienna in one day, by high-speed train across Europe...
How to travel by Trans-Siberian Railway London to Mongolia, China, Korea & Japan:
The Gare d'Austerlitz serves T'oz trains to Limoges, Toulouse, & overnight couchette trains to Cannes, Nice, Monte Carlo, Toulouse, Perpignan, Narbonne, Lourdes, Biarritz, Madrid & Barcelona.
On Saturday nights from late December to early April the Munich-Paris City Night Line sleeper is extended to start in Innsbruck, departing at 19:54, with no need to change at Munich.
Reservation is compulsory on all international trains from Romania.
So, well done to Belgian National Railways for torpedoing EU international links - Perhaps the EU should move to Cologne, rather than being stick at the end of a branch line in Brussels!
Estacion Central, Havana, Cuba Train travel in Cuba: A train from Santiago de Cuba arrives in Havana Havana's Estacion Central...
The tiny village of Tyndrum is the smallest place in Britain with two separate stations.
Hotels & accommodation in Europe
Take an afternoon Eurostar to Paris and the City Night Line overnight sleeper to Hamburg.
Sleeper trains: The German Railways website www.bahn.de can book the excellent City Night Line sleeper trains from D'sseldorf & Cologne to Zurich, Berlin to Zurich, and Hamburg to Zurich.
Touring with a Japan Rail Pass: On the platform at Tokyo Central A Japan Rail Pass will probably save you money...
or Munich to Salzburg
Although parts of the line are much older, the Picton-Christchurch railway was only completed in 1945, although work on this coastal section started in the 1930s.
The list includes most or all domestic Italian night trains plus the Paris-Venice Artesia train 'Stendhal', but fortunately not (it seems) the Paris-Florence-Rome Artesia 'Palatino'.
Transfer from station to bus terminal in central Surat Thani
1st class rail travel in Portugal, Spain, Italy and Eastern Europe is particularly good value, because their rail fares are so cheap to start with.
Travel from Cologne to Prague by City Night Line sleeper train, leaving Cologne daily at 22:28 and arriving in Prague's central Hlavni station at 09:26 next morning.
Europe to Cambodia via the Trans-Siberian Railway...
Take Eurostar from London to Brussels in just 1 hour 55 minutes, switch to a high-speed ICE high-speed train from Brussels to Cologne in 1 hour 57 minutes, then take a superb ICE high-speed train from Cologne to just about anywhere in Germany.
London to Morocco by Grandi Navi Veloci or Grimaldi Lines cruise ferry from Barcelona to Tangier...
London to Riga by train+ferry via Stockholm
The Pullman train terminates at Folkestone West (a small station just west of Folkestone Central), where passengers transfer to a waiting fleet of executive road coaches.
The SNAV fast ferry from Naples, just arrived at Capri's Grande Marina
This time at virtually no notice they have suddenly ceased running their Milan-Genoa-Monaco-Nice trains beyond the French frontier at Ventimiglia.
Sail from Genoa to Palermo on Sicily on the daily Grandi Navi Veloci cruise ferry, leaving Genoa at 22:00 and arriving Palermo around 18:00 next day.
Cycle compartments: This is the cycle compartment in the City Night Line sleeper train from Amsterdam & Cologne to Prague...
London & East Anglia to Copenhagen - via Hoek van Holland & Amsterdam
Buses link Valletta with towns and villages all over Malta.
At Dover, a British Southern Railway 'boat train' is waiting to take them non-stop to London Victoria.
The International Express train from Butterworth (Penang) arrives at Bangkok's Hualamphong Station.
The fare includes the train from London, Cambridge or any Greater Anglia rail station to Harwich, Stena Line ferry to Hoek van Holland, and the Dutch train from Hoek to Amsterdam or any Dutch station, all on one ticket.
Upper class on the main Rangoon - Mandalay express trains is relatively clean and comfortable, with fresh seat covers and curtains at the window.
Condor Ferries' Condor Express at St Helier, Jersey.
Seats car More info on City Night Line Elipsos sleeper trains Paris - Madrid, Paris-Barcelona click for seating plan More info on Elipsos trainhotels Belgium Domestic trains: Routes operated: Seating plan: More information: No seating plans available.
The Venice Simplon Orient Express Pullman train at London Victoria Inside a British Pullman car of the Venice Simplon Orient Express.
You can check times and buy print-at-home tickets at www.b-europe.com (select 'United Kingdom' & 'English' whatever your country of residence).
London to Turkey via Greece
At Figueres, simply cross the platform and board the connecting air-conditioned 'Alvia' train to Barcelona, departing Figueres Vilafant station at 19:56 and arriving at Girona at 20:25 & Barcelona Sants at 21:45.
The good news is that you can still see unspoilt Highland countryside from Scotland's railways, and the Royal Scotsman train takes you through some of the best scenery in Scotland (or indeed, in Britain).
Les Arcs is the easiest to reach of all, as it's linked by a 10-minute funicular (mountain railway) ride up the mountain from Bourg St Maurice railway station at the foot of the mountain.
Standard class passengers have access to the two cafe-bar cars, or may bring their own food & drink on board.
General train travel to Europe information Advice on changing trains at Brussels Midi station
I strongly recommend this option for both comfort and simplicity for travel with your dog between the UK and the following countries: Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Italy, Germany, Austria, Eastern Europe and Scandinavia.
On the Rail Europe home page, simply enter 'London', 'Cologne' and your dates of travel.
Although a half day slower overall, this option gives you a full day and evening in Madrid, and the morning Altaria train to Algeciras will show you the wonderful mountain scenery in southern Spain in daylight.
Introduced in 1990, X2000 (also known as X2) is Sweden's 200km/h (125mph) tilting high-speed train, linking Stockholm with Malm', Copenhagen, Gothenburg and a range of other Swedish cities.
Transfer from Barcelona Fran'a station to Barcelona Sants station by local suburban train or by taxi.
For destinations further into Switzerland, a Swiss Transfer Ticket allows one return journey from your point of entry (in this case Lausanne) to any station in Switzerland, for '93 return 2nd class, '140 return 1st class.
www.mrandmrssmith.com lists hand-picked boutique hotels in Florence, Rome, Venice, Milan, Tuscany, Sicily, Sorrento, Amalfi Coast and several other locations in Italy.
You then use road transport across the Friendship Bridge into Laos like this: (1) Take a local tuk-tuk taxi from Nong Khai railway station to the Nong Khai bus station.
The Bernina Express climbing towards the summit of the Bernina Pass in winter.
Swift fast ferry From London...
Cork, Limerick, Galway or Sligo to London costs 60 euros.
The DFDS cruise-ferry to Norway was sadly withdrawn for good in September 2008, ending over 120 years of direct ferry links between the UK and Norway...
Just south of Inverness it crosses the viaduct across Culloden moor, where Bonnie Prince Charlie was finally defeated.
Glacier Express, Bernina Express & Scenic Switzerland ' 8 day holiday by first class rail to and around the best bits of Switzerland from around '1,395.
Train times for other Shosholoza Meyl routes, including Johannesburg to East London, Messina and Komatipoort (for Maputo in Mozambique).
The jewel in Laos' crown is Luang Prabang, a city of French and Buddhist colonial buildings next to a river and nestled in mountains.
London to Oslo via the Harwich-Esbjerg ferry
London-Athens by train & ferry via Italy
London-Athens by train & ferry via Venice
Standard sleeper from Berlin to Moscow.
RailJet trains now operate on both the Munich-Salzburg-Vienna-Budapest route and the Zurich-Innsbruck-Salzburg-Vienna route.
One ticket bought at www.dutchflyer.co.uk covers the whole journey from London or any East Anglia rail station to Amsterdam or any Dutch rail station.
The Silk Route from Moscow to Central Asia & China
The national railways participating in the Eurail scheme are Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic (which joined in January 2009), Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia (joined 1 January 2012), Slovenia, Spain, Sweden & Switzerland.
X2000 Sweden Tilting 125mph Swedish train, linking Swedish cities and Stockholm/Gothenburg with Copenhagen and Oslo.
The Rocky Mountaineer leaves Jasper station around 8am, and heads up through the Yellowhead Pass.
Bruges: A boat cruise around the city...
VIA Rail inter-city trains between Toronto, Ottawa, Montreal and Qu'bec
Connections to Vevey, Montreux, Sion, Martigny, Gstaad...
Save New Zealand's 'Capital Connection' commuter service, Palmerston North to Wellington!
Most trains on the Madrid to Malaga route are the S102 type shown below, little articulated single-axle 'Talgo' carriages sandwiched between strange-looking 'duck-billed' power cars, hence the nickname 'pato', Spanish for 'duck'.
The cheapest option is to use the short sea routes, Dover-Calais or Dover-Dunquerque, see www.poferries.com, www.norfolkline.com.
Next morning, travel from Paris to Milan by high-speed TGV leaving Paris Gare de Lyon daily at 07:49 arriving Turin Porta Susa at 13:25 & Milan Porto Garibaldi at 14:45.
Most trains from Tangier reach the main line and turn southwest to Rabat & Casablanca, and you have to change trains to go east to Mekn's or F's, although there are two daily direct Tangier-Mekn's F's trains.
Day 2, travel from Stockholm to London as shown on the Sweden page, leaving Stockholm after 12:00 on an X2000 high-speed train to Copenhagen, the overnight City Night Line sleeper train 'Borealis' from Copenhagen to Cologne, a high-speed train to Brussels & Eurostar back to London, arriving in London St Pancras in time for lunch on day 3.
Step 1, go to www.bahn.de, the German Railways website, and book the direct overnight CNL sleeper train from Paris to Munich & back.
Amsterdam to Germany from 19 euros: Amsterdam to Berlin, Cologne, Munich...
For Amsterdam to Innsbruck or Salzburg, first book the Amsterdam-Munich City Night Line sleeper train using www.bahn.de and print out your own ticket.
The H'tel Majestic on the main Avenue de Paris in Tunis has the best French colonial facade in town and is a great place to stay, see www.booking.com/hotel/tn/majestic.en.html.
The InterRail global pass gives you unlimited train travel throughout Europe, covering the national train operators in Portugal, Spain, France, Switzerland, Italy, Greece, Germany, Austria, Belgium, Netherlands, Luxembourg, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Croatia, Slovenia, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Serbia, Turkey, Republic of Ireland and (unless you're a UK citizen, see next paragraph) the UK.
The Jungfraubahn mountain railway to the Top of Europe
On board the Orient Express sleeping-cars...
You'll then find a direct City Night Line sleeper train from Amsterdam to Basel & Zurich, which you can book online at www.bahn.de.
Other Irish destinations: Ireland's rail stations are zoned 1-3, with Cork, Limerick, Galway and Sligo all in zone 3, at the prices shown above.
You'll find direct InterCity trains from Ventimiglia to Genoa & Milan, plus a few daily direct InterCity trains from Ventimiglia to Pisa and Rome, with many more options involving a change of train.
Then travel from Cologne to Copenhagen, leaving Cologne at 22:28 by excellent City Night Line sleeper train to Copenhagen, arriving 10:02 next morning.
Option 1: London to Innsbruck or Salzburg via the Paris-Munich sleeper...
The German-run City Night Line trains offer more generous child fare age limits, under 6 free, under 15 child rate.
Travel from Madrid to Barcelona by high-speed AVE train, leaving Madrid Atocha at 16:30 arriving at Barcelona Sants at 19:15.
Just before Glenfinnan station, the train crosses Glenfinnan viaduct, as featured in the 'Harry Potter' films.
Favourite journeys: London-Fort William on the Caledonian Sleeper - For as little as '19 one-way including berth in a 2-berth sleeper, you can travel 550 miles North of London straight into the magnificent West Highlands.
www.tgv-europe.com can sell train tickets including seat, couchette or sleeper reservations for almost any journey within France and for direct international journeys to or from France, for example, Paris to or from London, Barcelona, Madrid, Switzerland, Rome, Florence, Venice, Milan, Munich, Amsterdam, Brussels.
For trains between Moscow and London, Paris, Amsterdam, Berlin or Warsaw, see the London to Russia page.
Take a South African train from Jo'burg to Komatipoort.
The 'Quick' hamburger restaurant on the far side of the square opposite the station's main entrance in the EuraLille shopping centre has free WiFi and a children's soft play area.
The direct Venice to Budapest sleeper was withdrawn in December 2011.
London to the French Alps
Above: A Finnlines Rostock-Helsinki ferry.
The final parts of the Milan-Florence & Rome-Naples high-speed lines come into use.
A Eurostar ticket to Brussels not only entitles you to travel on Eurostar to Brussels Midi, it's automatically valid on connecting local trains to other stations in the central Brussels area, including Brussels Central (5 minutes walk from the historic Grande Place), Brussels Nord, Brussels Congr's.
French Motorail from Calais no longer operates, but a French Railways 'Auto Train' car carrying serice operates from Paris to major French cities including Nice and Narbonne.
or Brussels-Amsterdam by Thalys high-speed train.
Day 1: Travel overnight from Cologne to Copenhagen on the City Night Line sleeper train 'Borealis', leaving Cologne daily at 22:28 and arriving next morning in Copenhagen main station at 10:07.
The Inglaterra Hotel, Havana, Cuba The Inglaterra Hotel, Havana Vintage Cuban car taken near the Havana seafront...
The Silja Line Stockholm-Helsinki cruise ferries are more like floating cities than ferries, with luxurious cabins, nightclubs, bars, restaurants, cafes, cinemas & shopping centres.
After a steady climb, the Glacier Express finally reaches St Moritz, 1,775 metres above sea level.
Taking Martin Lewis's advice can save you quite a lot on each trip compared to using your normal high-street bank credit card!
Hotels in Sofia & elsewhere in Bulgaria or eastern Europe...
Travel from Cologne to Brussels by ICE high-speed train, leaving Cologne daily at 07:43, arriving Brussels Midi at 09:35.
The 'Trans-Asia Express' from Ankara to Tehran...
A modern VIA Rail inter-city train, as used to link Toronto, Ottawa, Montreal, Quebec and Niagara Falls.
The Superfast Ferries transfer bus leaves Athens at 08:45 from the Superfast ferries office in Athens at 30, Amalias, GR-105 58, journey time 3'-4 hours.
London to Helsinki by ferry to Denmark, train to Stockholm, ferry to Finland...
Irish Ferries 'Ulysses': A luxurious cruise ferry Holyhead to Dublin Ferryport.
Useful tip: This train also calls at Phaya Thai station at 06:10 (next to the Phaya Thai BTS Skytrain station) and Makkasan station at 06:20 (Makkasan railway station is not the same as the Airport Rail Link's Makkasan station, make that clear to your taxi driver).
This will give you current real-time arrival and departure information for an German station, like looking at the departure board if you were at the station now.
Direct trains from Milan to Brig, Geneva, Bern, Basel, Zurich: There are regular direct trains from Milan to Geneva, Brig & Zurich plus one or two daily direct trains from Milan to Bern, Lucerne and Basel.
There are direct trains from Cambridge and Ipswich to Harwich, as well as from London, Chelmsford & Colchester.
For Stockholm, a fast X2000 train leaves Copenhagen around 12:37 arriving Stockholm Central at 17:39.
Trains run from D'sseldorf to Verona, Alessandria, Trieste (Italy), Munich (Germany), Villach, Salzburg, Innsbruck (Austria).
A taxi from Dover Priory to Dover Eastern Docks will cost around '5.
The prices shown on the Real Russia system are the actual Russian railways price plus a small (15%-23%) mark-up (all agencies mark up the basic price).
The Istanbul-Tehran 'Trans-Asia Express' now leaves Istanbul on Tuesdays rather than Wednesdays, and runs a day earlier westbound, too.
A brief history of the Trans-Siberian Railway * Across Siberia by 'Golden Eagle' luxury cruise train * Ferry service Vladivostok - Korea - Japan
A City Night Line sleeper train leaves Amsterdam at 20:34 overnight to Munich, arriving at 07:10 next morning.
Continental Divide: A small monument and wooden sign on the left mark the Continental Divide, and the boundary between Alberta & British Columbia.
Take the sleeper from London to Aberdeen, Inverness, Fort William, Perth or Dundee, see above for times & fares.
The Queen mary 2 towers high above the terminal.
Direct InterCity trains link Berlin & Amsterdam Zuid from 29 euros (change at Hilversum for Amsterdam Centraal).
Eurostar Italia Italy Not to be confused with the London-Paris Eurostar, Eurostar Italia is the brand name for Italy's high speed trains linking key Italian cities.
Day 2, evening: Either take a taxi from Algeciras station direct to Gibraltar town for around 24 euros, or for around 2.05 euros take bus M-120 from Algeciras bus station (just across the road from the rail station) to La Linea, 250m from the Gibraltar frontier, then walk into Gibraltar town centre.
Santander has three daily high-speed trains to Valladolid & Madrid, journey time 4' hours, see www.renfe.com for times, fares & online booking.
These Altaria trains have adjustable axles: They use the standard-gauge high-speed lines at up to 125 mph for part of their journey, then are shunted slowly through a special gauge-changing shed, emerging on Spanish broad-gauge track to complete their journey on the classic rail network.
Times & fares for the 'trainhotels' from Spain to Paris, Lisbon, Bern, Zurich, Turin, Milan.
If you live in any other country - India, Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan, Brazil, Israel or South Africa...
For the other Cinque Terre villages (Vernazza, Corniglia, Manarola & Riomaggiore) change at Monterosso for a regular local train service.
Direct trains link Hamburg with Copenhagen, book at City Night Line sleeper train from Cologne to Copenhagen, with onward connections for Oslo and Stockholm, you'll find more information on the Sweden page (just ignore the London-Cologne bit!
Caledonian Sleeper from London to Scotland: 1st class 1-berth sleeper Caledonian sleeper from London to Scotland: Standard class 2-berth The Caledonian Sleeper waits to leave London Euston on its 500 mile journey to the Highlands of Scotland.
Trains run from Dublin Heuston Station to Limerick (2 hour 45 min), Cork (2 hours 50 min, change at Cork for Cobh), Killarney, Tralee, Galway (2 hours 45 min), Kilkenny, Waterford.
To Germany, Austria, Central & Eastern Europe & Scandinavia: I recommend travelling from London to Amsterdam via the overnight Harwich-Hoek van Holland ferry, see option 1 above.
City Night Line are reinstating a direct Paris-Hamburg sleeper train 'Andromeda' as from 12 December 2010.
It's just opposite the main exit from Brussels Midi station on the platform 1 side of the station (the Eurostar terminal side).
Queensland Railways (QR) operates excellent passenger trains linking Brisbane, Townsville and Cairns, branded Traveltrain.
The Thomas Cook European Timetable has train, bus and ferry times for every country in Europe, including European Turkey from Istanbul westwards.
The ship is child-friendly, with children's play area, child restraints for cabin berths available from reception, and highchairs available in all restaurants and lounges.
Deutsche Bahn can, of course, reserve the rest of your return journey from Warsaw back to London.
And similarly, Deutsche Bahn may quote an expensive international tariff for (say) Paris to Bordeaux, when Rail Europe would quote a far cheaper fare only available via the French railways' own reservation system.
First book from Paris-Switzerland & back, add to basket, then click 'continue shopping' and book from London to Paris & back.
On 11 April 1919 the Simplon Orient Express starts running in addition to the Orient Express, using the Southerly route from Paris (Gare de Lyon) to Lausanne, Milan, Venice, Trieste, Belgrade, and (from 1920 onwards) Istanbul.
Introducing the 'Night Riviera' sleeper train between London & Cornwall...
London to Singapore overland The Rakyat Express, train number 1 from Butterworth (Penang) to Kuala Lumour & Singapore, at a wayside station
This is the Southern route, a whole different flavour from the transcontinental routes via Chicago.
Once capital of the Sukhothai Kingdom, the UNESCO-designated ruins are 12 km outside Sukhothai town, easily reached by local transport.
Zurich to Milan start at just CHF30-45 (about 20-30 euros) if you pre-book.
You'll also find ICE trains running from Germany into Switzerland (Basel, Zurich, Bern, Interlaken) and Austria (Vienna).
La Tania Moutiers Buses run by www.transavoie.com link Moutiers with La Tania, 40 minutes, 10.60 euro.
Val Thorens Moutiers Buses run by www.transavoie.com link Moutiers with Val Thorens, 60-75 mins, 16 euro.
Take the sleeper from the Highlands of Scotland to London, see above for times & fares.
She started life in 1995 as the 'Isle of Innisfree' on the Irish Ferries Holyhead-Dublin and Pembroke-Rosslare routes, and later the P&O's 'Pride of Cherbourg' on the Portsmouth-Cherbourg route.
From Pamplona, No suitable connections * From Bilbao, catch a bus from Bilbao to Irun with www.alsa.es, leaving Bilbao Termibus station at 14:15 arriving Irun railway station at 16:45.
A complete guide to the Eurostar high-speed train from London to Paris, Lille & Brussels...
You can buy special 'Dutch Flyer' train & ferry tickets from London or any National Express East Anglia rail station to Amsterdam using this Harwich-Hoek ferry, complete with a private cabin.
The 'Bosfor' from Bucharest to Istanbul at the Turkish frontier City walls, Istanbul Above: The 'Bosfor' express in the green countryside of Bulgaria, coupled with other cars from Belgrade and Sofia to Istanbul...
London to Cyprus via freighter from the UK & Italy: A limited number of passenger places are available on direct UK-Italy-Cyprus freight ships.
or onwards from London to Switzerland, Italy, Spain, Germany & beyond:
London to Moscow via Warsaw, Vilnius & Riga...
Option 5, the ultimate scenic option: London to Italy via the 'Bernina Express'
For train service between Europe & Beijing via the Trans-Siberian Railway, see the Trans-Siberian page.
This ferry also sails from the Hansa Ferry Terminal in the Vuosaari Harbour 16km east of central Helsinki.
Above: Tangier's new station Above: Inside Tangier station, showing ticket windows
To head onwards to the States, there is a daily fast catamaran service between Victoria and Seattle - see www.victoriaclipper.com or direct trains Vancouver-Seattle, see www.amtrakcascades.com or www.amtrak.com.
Rosslare Europort is linked by train to Wexford, Wicklow & Dublin.
Simla Mock Tudor houses from a suburban town in Surrey, transplanted to the Himalayan foothills with an Indian bazaar tacked on the side.
You can also use trains to reach Central Asia from Europe and Moscow.
S,2,3,R Bangkok (Hualamphong) depart by train 08:05 18:30 19:30 Phuket Town depart by bus: 06:00* 12:00 16:00 Surat Thani station arrive by train: 16:45 06:28 07:16 Surat Thani rail station arrive by bus: 10:00* 16:30 20:00
A train service to Tangier Med Port is due to start at some point, perhaps in 2012.
The famous Lorelei Rock on the Rhine, seen from the restaurant car of the Auto Slaap Trein to Italy...
High speed and scenic routes are highlighted - well worth buying to go with your rail pass!
Or buy the twice-yearly independent traveller's edition with laminated cover from Amazon.co.uk: Winter/Spring 2011/12 edition (Dec 2011 to June 2012) or (when available) Summer/Autumn 2012 edition (June to Dec 2012)
The Venice Simplon Orient Express is in fact two separate trains, a British Pullman train from London to Folkestone and a Continental sleeping-car train from Calais to Venice.
The main stations in big cities and tourist centres such as New Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta, Agra, Jaipur and Varanasi have an International Tourist Bureau where foreign travellers can book trains away from the crowds and queues at the normal booking office.
ap of train routes in Southern Africa
The bus ride across the Pyrenean mountain passes into Andorra is spectacular, although a new tunnel cuts off part of the original road over the pass.
Admirably well laid-out by its founder, Colonel William Light, the city centre is surrounded by parkland.
The Swansea-Cork ferry returns this month, with a 3-times-a-week overnight cruise ferry linking Britain directly with Cork in southern Ireland.
Scotland & the north of England to Germany by ferry - bypassing London
If you live in Australia or New Zealand, click to check pass prices & buy a Japan Rail Pass online at Australian rail specialist www.internationalrail.com.au.
Paris to Germany from 39 euros: Paris to Frankfurt, Cologne, Munich, Berlin...
Schematic maps of all major European rail & ferry routes, both international and within each country (see example map below); * Timetables for all major international routes in Europe, as far east as Istanbul, Moscow, St Petersburg & Kiev, as far west as Lisbon, as far south as Athens, Sicily, Gibraltar (see example timetable below); * Timetables for all principal domestic train services in each European country; * Timetables and route maps for all ferry services serving Europe, including Baltic, English Channel, North Sea and Mediterranean; * It now also includes train service in Asian Turkey and Asian Russia, including the Trans-Siberian Railway.
The Royal Scotsmn train passes another scenic stretch of river on the Highland Line Crossng a wide green valley on the Highland Line south of Inverness
The sleeper to Cornwall waits to leave platform 1 at Paddington Station, under Isambard Kingdom Brunel's magnificent arched roof dating from 1854.
Change in Toronto for the famous 'Canadian' trans-continental train three times a week to Winnipeg, Edmonton, Jasper & Vancouver.
Regular X2000 high-speed trains link Copenhagen with Stockholm in about 5' hours, check train times at www.bahn.de.
Above right: The 'monastery', reached after a steep climb up into the hills on the far side of the Petra site...
Recommended for: journeys from London to France, Switzerland, Italy & Spain.
Train travel in Corsica: Ajaccio, Corte, Bastia, Ile Rousse, Calvi...
A 4-night trip including the famous Glacier Express and the equally amazing Bernina Express starts from around '699 per person.
Pictured, above right: As the waiter brings dessert, the evening sun catches the famous Lorelei Rock, the stuff of German legend, on the far bank of the Rhine...
Take the overnight train+ferry+train service from London (or any station in East Anglia) to Amsterdam via the overnight Harwich-Hoek ferry, sleeping in a comfortable cabin.
Day 1: Travel from Cologne to Moscow by direct Russian Railways sleeping-car, leaving Cologne at 22:28, travelling across Germany, Poland and Belarus, arriving Moscow Byelorruski Station 2 nights later at 10:33 (Day 3 from London).
The 3-times-a-week Auto-Train service from Paris to Geneva was withdrawn in summer 2010.
Above: A key stage in the journey is the excellent weekly Ankara-Tehran train, the 'Trans-Asia Express' (formerly running from Istanbul)...
This train is temporarily using Warsaw Gdanska station due to rebuilding work at Warsaw Centralna, Gdanska station is 2.7 miles north of Centralna station.
City Night Line will introduce a new Copenhagen to Prague sleeper service with sleepers and couchettes.
London to Moscow, St Petersburg & Russia .
It veers right and crosses the Thompson River onto Indian ('first nation') territory, passing a small wooden church on the left that was allegedly used in the film 'Unforgiven' with Clint Eastwood.
SBB Swiss Federal Railways (which runs most inter-city main lines)
In Bram Stoker's 'Dracula', young lawyer Jonathan Harker travels from London to Transylvania by train.
The ICE3 trains used on this service are superb, amongst the most comfortable high-speed trains in Europe.
Every night except Saturday night, two Caledonian Sleeper trains leave London's Euston station, one around 21:15 for Dundee, Stirling, Perth, Gleneagles, Aviemore, Aberdeen, Inverness and Fort William, the other around 23:50 for Edinburgh and Glasgow.
The Lusitania Trenhotel leaves Lisbon (Santa Apolonia) daily at 22:30 and Lisbon (Oriente) at 22:38, arriving in Madrid Chamartin station next morning at 09:03.
London to Amsterdam or any Dutch station by train+ferry: London-Amsterdam (or any Dutch stations) by train+ferry via Harwich-Hook of Holland should be booked online at Netherlands page for full details.
From late 2012 (possibly December), the line to Barcelona will be completed and high-quality Spanish TGV trains will run direct between Paris & Barcelona, with the journey time further reduced!
Greece now cut off from the rest of eastern Europe...
The Spanish AVE high speed train from Madrid to Seville, seen at Madrid Atocha
Hotels in South America...
Direct sleeping-cars between Kiev and Prague, Kiev and Vienna, and between Warsaw and Odessa, Warsaw and Simferopol are also discontinued.
Helsinki's new Hansa Ferry Terminal in the Vuosaari Harbour is 16km east of central Helsinki.
By all means stop off in Florence for a few hours, there's a left luggage office in Florence costing only a few euros, open 06:00-24:00 daily.
Recommended for: journeys from London to Germany, Austria, Scandinavia, central & eastern Europe.
This month, the London to Italy page went into the lead for the first time ever, probably driven by UK travellers eager to reach Italy in spite of the air travel chaos.
There's a fairly simple fares structure for long-distance trains including the high-speed AVE: Tarifa general (full price).
There is a light railway (run by SMLT) linking Tunis centre, La Goulette (for the ferry terminal to Marseille and Genoa), Carthage (for the ancient ruins & Byrsa Hill) and Marsa Plage.
Eurostar Italia & Eurostar City trains: There's a '10 compulsory seat reservation charge for passholders on all high-speed Frecciarossa, Frecciargento and Frecciabianca trains, linking Milan, Florence, Rome, Naples, Venice, Verona, Turin.
Overnight sleeper trains between Amsterdam & Vienna/Prague/Copenhagen/Munich/Zurich, Berlin & Zurich, Hamburg & Zurich, Dortmund/Cologne & Vienna, etc. Train times, fares & online booking, you print out your own ticket.
A family-run business, destinations include Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Belgium, Russia and France.
Scenery in the Rockies from the 'Canadian's dome car.
Option 3: London to Belgrade via Budapest...
Option 4: London to Krakow via Prague...
For an account of taking bikes by train from London to Istanbul via Paris, Munich, Budapest & Bucharest, see http://onelittlewheel.com/2010/07/28/tracks-across-europe-with -alexander-the-best-paris-to-istanbul/.
Thello will start a Paris-Florence-Rome sleeper train in June, though that does mean there will be no Paris-Florence-Rome sleeper for the next 6 months.
Dogs & other pets go on the ferry for '5 one-way, '10 return, you simply pay at the port.
The Commodore Clipper is designed to carry passengers, cars & freight, so her passenger accommodation isn't as extensive as on some ships, but it's clean, very comfortable and well-run.
A new tunnel (the 9-mile long MacDonald Tunnel) was built in 1988 to increase capacity by by-passing both the Stoney Creek Bridge and the shorter 1916-built Connaught Tunnel, but the Rocky Mountaineer deliberately takes the original route.
BC time) Spiral Tunnels: The train passes Wapta Lake and enters the first of the two famous 'Spiral Tunnels'.
The service uses vintage 1920s and 1930s Pullmans from London to the Channel port, and 1929-vintage Wagons-Lits sleepers from Boulogne to Venice.
Stena Line have reported that this service is being used by an increasing number of young professionals, keen to avoid airport stress and cut their environmental impact by 80%, as well as saving expensive hotel costs in Amsterdam or London.
For information about taking bikes, dogs, pets & luggage, and left luggage facilities in Paris & Italy, see the general information page.
Advice on changing trains at Brussels Midi station.
It used the direct Berlin-St Petersburg sleeper train which ran twice a week in winter, 5 times a week in summer, but this train was withdrawn from 11 December 2011.
You need to book this trip as three separate journeys: London-Paris & back, Paris-Munich & back, and Munich to Verona, Bologna or Venice & back.
A high-speed Thalys train leaves Cologne at 07:43 daily, arriving Brussels at 09:32.
Take a lunchtime Eurostar to Brussels, a high-speed train to Cologne, the excellent City Night Line overnight sleeper train to Copenhagen then either a fast X2000 train to Stockholm or an 'resund link train to Gothenburg.
As the railway was incomplete in Bulgaria, horse-drawn carriages took passengers from Nis across the mountains to Plovdiv, where the rail journey resumed for Istanbul.
click for seating plan More info about UK trains Other trains All other routes non available More info about UK trains France Domestic trains: Routes operated: Seating plan: More information: TGV R'seau Lille to Bordeaux, Lyon, Marseille, Nice, Montpelier
The Highland sleeper runs daily except Saturday nights arriving at London Euston between 07:43 & 08:03.
RailJet is Austria's brand-new high-speed train, linking Munich, Vienna & Budapest, now also linking Zurich, Innsbruck & Vienna.
The Spirit of the Outback: Club car & exterior of the Spirit of The Outback from Rockhampton to Longreach.
Above: A scenic ride on the Taieri Gorge Railway, for the daily onward bus link to Queenstown...
Scotland & North of England to Austria avoiding London West Country & South Coast to Austria avoiding London
But the Swiss Transfer Ticket is valid from your point of entry into Switzerland, in this case Basel, so it also covers the Basel-Zurich part of the TGV journey.
These run from Paris to Munich, Paris to Berlin, Amsterdam & Cologne to Prague, Munich and Copenhagen.
Traveller Nick Stone returned to London from Athens this way: 'We travelled from Athens to London.
Paris to Madrid & Barcelona by trainhotel: Tourist Class 4-bed sleeper (day mode) Paris to Madrid & Barcelona by trainhotel: Tourist Class 4-bed sleeper (night mode) The 'trainhotel' to Madrid seen at Paris Austerlitz...
Euroferrys conventional ferry approaching Tangier A Euroferrys fast ferry from Algeciras to Tangier Africa ahoy!
The London to Greece page explains how to plan and book train+ferry travel from London to Corfu, Athens, Crete or Rhodes.
Eurostar carried 28% more passengers in 2006 than in the 12 months before the first section of UK high-speed line opened, and after the first 11 months of 2006 had cornered 69% of the London-Paris air/rail market.
Hamburg to Copenhagen: Prices start at just 39 euros ('34) one-way, 78 euros ('68) return if you book well in advance (maximum 90 days ahead).
Walk-up London or any South East or East Anglia rail station to Rosslare '38 '45 Birmingham, Southampton or Reading to Rosslare '36 '43 Bristol, Bath, Cardiff or Swansea to Rosslare '33 '40
This will include DB's international sleepers from Paris & Brussels to Hamburg & Berlin, and from Paris to Munich.
InterCity Various InterCity is a brand name used by a number of countries (Switzerland, Germany, Hungary, Italy) to designate the best internal express trains.
London to China & Japan
This train travels over the second trans-continental line built across Canada, the Canadian National route between Jasper (in Jasper National Park) and Vancouver, opened in 1917.
This was successful, and New Zealand Railways bought several brand-new stainless-steel railcars from Japan, which it named 'Silver Fern'.
Travel from Irun to Lisbon overnight on the famous Sud Express, leaving Irun at 22:20 and arriving at Lisbon's Oriente station (for connecting trains to Faro) at 10:22 and Lisbon's Santa Apolonia station (for the city centre) at 10:31 next morning.
mph tilting 'X2000' from Copenhagen to Stockholm, at Copenhagen station 2nd class seats on the X2000 train from Copenhagen to Stockholm The self-service buffet on the X2000 train from Copenhagen to Stockholm...
mph tilting 'X2000' from Copenhagen to Stockholm, at Copenhagen station 2nd class seats on the X2000 train from Copenhagen to Stockholm The self-service buffet on the X2000 train from Copenhagen to Stockholm...
The continental Divide, boundary between Alberta & British Columbia...
A fast X2000 125mph tilting train leaves Copenhagen around 12:30 and arrives Stockholm Central around 17:40.
It can be reached by train, on the Aleppo-Damascus main line.
in person at most British railway stations including London Euston.
International train travel around South America
Club Class seats on a VIA Rail Toronto-Montreal intercity train.
This train takes the scenic route up the Hudson River out of New York, with the train tracks running right alongside the river, past Storm King Mountain and West Point Military Academy.
Turning east again, the train reaches Venice Mestre on the mainland, then rumbles slowly over the causeway with anticipation building, finally arriving at Venice Santa Lucia terminus on the very shores of the Grand Canal in central Venice, walking distance from the Rialto Bridge and St Mark's Square...
Sleeper train from Munich to Rome, Florence & Venice: The German Railways website www.bahn.de can book the excellent direct City Night Line sleeper train from Munich (depart 21:05) to Venice (arrive 06:38), Florence (arrive 06:18) and Rome (arrive 08:54).
Booking from Cologne to Budapest all in one go is cheaper than booking separate Cologne-Vienna and Vienna-Budapest tickets, as Cologne-Budapest can be the same price as Cologne-Vienna.
Most Brussels-bound Eurostars call at Lille in northern France, the interchange for French TGV high-speed trains to destinations all over France, see the London to France page.
A second book, this time about train travel opportunities worldwide beyond Europe, was published in February 2011.
Train+hotel deals for all parts of France, including Cannes, Nice, Monaco, Lourdes, Bergerac, Strasbourg or the French Alps.
Right: The Petit Train Jaune from Perpignan/Villefranche to Latour de Carol...
First book Brussels to Cologne at www.b-europe.com from 14 euros.
Altaria Spain Brand name for premier daytime services between Madrid and Alicante, Madrid and Barcelona.
London to Bremen & Hamburg by sleeper train
London to Rotterdam, Utrecht, Arnhem & other destinations in the Netherlands...
Arco Spain Brand name for air-conditioned quality trains, but slower than EuroMed, linking Barcelona and Valencia.
The train cuts across Lichtenstein, passing non-stop through the little station at Schaan-Lichtenstein...
You can check Swiss point-to-point fares at Map of Swiss routes showing which routes are covered by a Swiss rail pass and which only give a 50% discount for passholders.
Option 2, by 'Dutch Flyer' train & ferry via Harwich-Hoek van Holland: Option 2 is to catch an afternoon train to London (or change at Peterborough for the cross-country route to Harwich) then take the comfortable overnight 'Dutch Flyer' train & ferry service from London to Amsterdam via Harwich-Hoek van Holland as explained in detail above.
It's so easy to travel from London to Basel or Zurich by train, taking Eurostar to Paris, then a direct high-speed TGV Lyria from Paris to Basel or Zurich.
Restaurants & bars near Midi station or the Grande Place: There are many cafes & bars in or near Brussels Midi, but for something a bit special, try the huge and modernistic 'Midi Station' restaurant, brasserie & bar, www.midistation.eu, which does a great steak tartare.
Choose whether to stay in one place (for example, the coastal villages of Cinque Terre, the wonderful Naples/Pompeii/Sorrento/Capri area, or Sicily) or to travel around seeing the great cities such as Rome, Florence, Venice, Verona, Naples.
The train follows the Rangoon-Mandalay main line as far as Bago, where it branches off and heads across the plains to the broad Sittung River which it crosses via a huge and heavily-guarded road/rail bridge.
Ticket delivery: Tickets can be collected at any main British station including London Euston, or sent to any address in Britain or Northern Ireland.
London to Cork or anywhere else in Ireland via the Holyhead-Dublin ferry
This part of South Africa, the Karoo Desert was cold and rather bleak, however the sunshine took the edge of both at this time of the morning.
For some miles the train run along the banks of this beautiful sound (also on left hand side) past the BC Ferries terminal serving the islands.
From: To: Operator From: To: Operator Plymouth Roscoff Brittany Ferries Portsmouth St Malo Brittany Ferries Poole Cherbourg Brittany Ferries Weymouth/Poole St Malo www.condorferries.co.uk Portsmouth Cherbourg Brittany Ferries Portsmouth Le Havre www.ldlines.co.uk Portsmouth Caen Brittany Ferries Newhaven Dieppe www.ldlines.co.uk
Caledonian Sleeper - sleeper corridor First class single-berth sleeper Inside a sleeper compartment
Day 1, evening: Travel from Copenhagen to Amsterdam by City Night Line sleeper train 'Borealis', leaving Copenhagen main station at 18:10 and arriving in Amsterdam Centraal at 08:56 next morning.
The Southern Africa guidebook is less detailed than the Zimbabwe one, but it covers South Africa, Botswana, Namibia, and several other countries in Southern Africa as well as Zimbabwe.
Option 1, London to Moscow via the daily direct Cologne-Moscow sleeping-car: The fastest & most convenient way.
The shores of Asia are only a 20 minute ferry ride away.
The crossing takes just 90 minutes, and you arrive at the Valletta ferry terminal, walking distance from Valletta city centre.
Step 1, change 'St Pancras' to 'Paris' and book from Paris to Barcelona & back, looking for the direct Elipsos train.
Also offers online booking from London to major cities in France, any Belgian station, Amsterdam, Basel & Cologne.
City Night Line is the German Railways overnight service.
A steward will keep you supplied with coffee, although this being Southeast Asia it's not exactly cold outside!
If you'd prefer a sea voyage to Turkey, avoiding eastern Europe, two shipping lines sail direct from Italy to Turkey during the summer.
Time to see the scenic waterfall.
On this damp February day, snow can still be seen on distant mountain tops.
The days of travelling on a non-stop 'boat train' run exclusively for international passengers from London Victoria into Folkestone Harbour or Dover Western docks right alongside the ferries are long gone.
The Liverpool terminal is at Twelve Quays in Birkenhead, across the Mersey from Liverpool, see map showing terminal and Lime Street station.
Step 1, travel from Venice Santa Lucia station to Gorizia Centrale by regional train.
From Vienna to Budapest the landscape is flat, wide open farmland, now sporting more wind turbines that you've ever seen before, allegedly over 200.
The most scenic route of all is probably the West Highland Line from Glasgow to Fort William & Mallaig, so for sheer remote Highland beauty take the Royal Scotsman's 3-night Western Tour.
Coming from Odessa: Two daily high-quality sleeper trains link Odessa with Kiev.
Book the Irun to Lisbon Sud Express at the Spanish railways website See this step-by-step guide to using renfe.com.
London to Thailand overland by Trans-Siberian Railway
Europe to Laos overland by Trans-Siberian Railway
Option 2, Prague to Paris via Cologne: Use www.bahn.de to book a ticket on the direct City Night Line sleeper train 'Phoenix' from Prague to Cologne, leaving Prague Hlavni at 18:29 and arriving Cologne at 06:14 next morning.
Take a direct cruise ferry from the North of England to Europe...
Day 1, travel from Paris to Turin or Milan by high-speed Paris-Italy TGV, leaving Paris Gare de Lyon daily at 14:41 and arriving Milan Porto Garibaldi at 21:45.
Two type S100 AVE high-speed trains wait to leave Madrid Atocha for Seville.
The journey takes you past the Uffington White Horse and through Isambard Kingdom Brunel's Severn Railway Tunnel into South Wales.
The QM2 at Southampton City Cruise Terminal
Austria to Italy from 39 euros: Venice, Florence, Milan, Rome...
The new station for Panama City is in the northern suburb of Allbrook, not far from the domestic airport - the old station in Panama City is now a MacDonald's..
London & East Anglia to Prague via the Harwich-Hoek van Holland ferry with a day in Amsterdam too.
There's also a cunning, cheap and scenic way to travel from Venice or Trieste to Lake Bled in northern Slovenia, via Gorizia and Nova Gorica, where Italian and Slovenian railway statiis are just a few kilometres apart.
Ferries sail from Lesvos (Mytilini) to Ayvalik in Turkey daily Monday-Saturday, crossing 1 hour 10 minutes, fare 30 euros.
Change here for InterCity trains to Faro & the Algarve, remain on board for the final stop, Lisbon's original Santa Apolonia Station for Lisbon city centre.
This situation will continue until at least October 2013, while the railways around Istanbul are transformed with the new Bosphorus rail tunnel & a new mainline rail station underground in European Istanbul, serving trains to both Europe and Asia.
Alternatively, on many days in summer Balearia operate a daytime fast ferry from Barcelona to Alcudia, on the northeast corner of Majorca.
The Thomas Cook Rail Map of Europe is easily the best and most comprehensive map of train routes all over Europe.
There is no need to book the transfer bus from Newcastle station to the ferry terminal, as you pay on board the bus.
Option 3: Take a Dover-Calais P&O ferry (small dogs or pets in PDSA containers only).
Above: The ferry from Naples, arrived at Capri.
Onward tickets from Basel to other Swiss destinations require no reservation and are fixed-price, so are best bought at the station when you get to Basel (you can check fares at the Swiss Railways site www.sbb.ch), or you can buy a 29 euro 'connection' ticket to any Swiss station from the City Night Line train manager which is often better value.
Step 1: Travel from Aleppo to Antakya & Adana by daily buses: There's a daily direct Syrian bus from Aleppo's Karnak bus station to Antakya & Adana, leaving at 05:00.
London to Cyprus - via Greece
Inside Douglas Steam Railway station.
The Sud Express arrives in Lisbon: The Sud Express has just arrived at Lisbon's new Oriente station.
in Australia direct from Trenitalia Other useful links: Train times for almost any journey in Europe.
The Greek railways are supposedly building a brand-new standard-gauge rail line from Athens to Patras, but it's not yet complete (given the state of Greece's national finances, it may take some years yet).
Norway: There will be a 6-week closure of part of the Gothenburg to Oslo main line in summer 2011.
RailJet is Austria's new high-speed train, linking Munich, Salzburg, Linz & Vienna and now also Zurich, Innsbruck & Vienna.
There are daytime EuroCity trains from Zurich, Geneva, Basel, Bern, Luzern, Brig to Milan, change in Milan for fast trains to Venice, Florence, Rome, Naples.
It opens on the platform at Aleppo, next to the two blue-and-gold Wagons-Lits sleeping cars of the Taurus Express bound for Istanbul.
How to travel from Britain to Ireland by train+ferry: Republic of Ireland, Northern Ireland.
Train from Wadi Halfa to Khartoum, Sudan Train from Wadi Halfa to Khartoum, Sudan Above: The Wadi Halfa to Khartoum train.
These trains now run an hourly high-speed service between Venice, Florence and Rome.
It doesn't cover the bus between Dover Priory and Eastern Docks.
The Indian Pacific stops at Kalgoorlie long enough to have a wander.
www.eurostar.com is the best place to check fares & buy tickets between London & Lille, Paris, Brussels or anywhere in Belgium, and will also book tickets from London to Cologne & Amsterdam.
Note that the departure time for London is just the time of the train+ferry connection - the Simplon Orient Express starts in Calais.
This will book combined train & ferry tickets from London or any other station in Britain to Rosslare harbour.
The Night Riviera sleeper train connects conveniently at Penzance with the ferry to the Scilly Isles, some 28 miles from the Cornish mainland.
Map of train routes in southern Africa (South Africa, Namibia, Zim, Zambia, Tanzania, Kenya)
In this example, you'd book Paris-Barcelona at tgv-europe.com, then Barcelona-Alicante at the Spanish Railways website, www.renfe.com.
LX sleepers were used on the trains such as the 'Blue Train' between Calais/Paris and the South of France, the 'Rome Express' from Calais/Paris to Rome and on the Paris-Berlin-Warsaw-Riga 'Nord Express'.
The research looked at actual Eurostar passenger loadings, actual Eurostar power consumption, the way Eurostar's electricity is generated, actual aircraft loadings, actual aircraft fuel consumption, and so on.
With comfortable en suite cabins, restaurants, bars, cinema and shops on board, the voyage is a holiday in itself.
On an increasing number of routes (e.g. Paris to Madrid, Barcelona, Italy, and Brussels to Berlin), good-value inclusive fares are now charged, covering travel, sleeper & breakfast.
For overland travel from Europe to China the easy way, see the Trans-Siberian page.
For overland travel from the UK & Europe to China, see the Trans-Siberian page.
The same special fare from London is valid from any National Express East Anglia station, for example Norwich, Cambridge, Romford, Ilford, Ipswich.
The same applies to making reservations for booking standard 2-bed sleepers on routes where a 2nd class ticket is now sufficient, such as all City Night Line routes and routes such as Prague to Krakow.
High-speed from London to Holland from December...
For 3 or more countries, there's the Benelux Tourrail pass covering the Netherlands, Belgium & Luxembourg, the Eastern Europe pass covering Austria, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland, the Balkan Flexipass covering Greece, Turkey, Romania, Bulgaria, Macedonia & Serbia.
Watch out for the stainless steel statue of Mongolia's only cosmonaut in front of the station building, a local boy made good...
A Swiss Transfer Ticket covers one return journey from your point of entry into Switzerland (an airport, frontier or the first stop inside Switzerland of any 'Lyria' TGV from Paris) to anywhere within Switzerland, using Swiss Federal Railways, private railways and even post buses.
A connecting 'boat train' leaves Heysham Port station (right next to the ferry terminal) at 13:15 arriving Lancaster 13:32.
Also on the right are some wicked-looking rocks, including the Barrett Reef where the Lyttelton-Wellington overnight ferry 'Wahine' came to grief in a storm in 1968.
A French count and a Spanish bishop disagreed over who should rule a small rural enclave high up in the Pyrenees.
Surveys for the route of the North Island Main Trunk Railway started in 1883, led by one John Rochfort.
France's world-famous TGV travels at up to 198 mph, from city centre to city centre.
Travel from Paris to Irun on the Franco-Spanish border by high-speed TGV, leaving Paris Montparnasse at 14:29 and arriving Irun at 20:30.
Walking to Brussels city centre: If you prefer to walk, it's a 20-25 minute stroll from Brussels Midi station to the Grande Place in the city centre.
Other towns & cities in Denmark...
The online system above has 'Dublin Port (Irish Ferries)' pre-selected so it will book you on Irish Ferries 'Ulysses', but feel free to change this to 'Dublin Port (Stena)' if you'd prefer the Stena Line ship.
In Patras, the ferry arrives in the town centre just five minutes walk from the railway station, which is just outside the ferry dock and along the harbour-front road to the right.
Between March and November, the Manx Electric Railway links Douglas with Laxey & Ramsey.
Dining-car number 2 'Victory' was built in 1945 as an LNER (London & North Eastern Railway) first class carriage, used for much of its life as a inspection saloon for railway officials.
For travel to London, select 'London (all stations)'.
Stockholm to Riga by ferry: The fare depends on cabin type and season.
For journeys with a dog or pet from the UK via Calais to France, Spain or Portugal, call Rail Europe on 0844 848 5 848, lines open 09:00-19:00 Mon-Fri, 09:00-18:00 Saturdays.
If you can't afford the famous and luxurious Taj Lake Palace Hotel on the lake itself, the Lake Pichola hotel (www.lakepicholahotel.com) is a good low-to-mid-price choice, central and with its restaurant terrace overlooking the lake, though many prefer the Jagat Niwas Palace, also overlooking the lake, www.jagatniwaspalace.com.
Passing Conway Castle
Scotland & north of England to Austria via cruise ferry from Newcastle or Hull.
Rocky Mountaineer: Red Leaf seating Rocky Mountaineer Red Leaf cars boarding at Banff
Toronto to Ottawa starts at Can$78, regular fare Can$140.
Above, the Rakyat Express from Butterworth (Penang) to Kuala Lumpur & Singapore calls at a wayside station.
Delhi: The main city centre station in Delhi is New Delhi, so look for 'New Delhi' as well as 'Delhi'.
The Thomas Cook Rail Map of Europe: Buy from Amazon USA
Anyone from any country worldwide, including the UK, most of Europe, United States, Canada, Australia, Asia and Africa can use this system, with payment in euros and print-at-home tickets.
Travel from Cologne to Odense or Copenhagen on the City Night Line overnight train 'Borealis', leaving Cologne daily at 22:28 and arriving next morning in Kolding (for bus to Legoland) at 07:43, Odense at 08:33 & Copenhagen main station at 10:07.
London-Budapest by Eurostar to Paris, TGV to Munich, overnight Hungarian sleeper to Budapest: Fast & time-effective route.
Overnight option: A direct sleeper train leaves Zurich at 22:40, arrives Budapest 10:49 next morning.
Fort William station is only 10 minutes walk from the bottom of the tourist track up Ben Nevis, the highest mountain in Britain (4,409 feet or 1,344 metres.
How to buy onward tickets within Italy: The raileurope.co.uk or tgv-europe.com booking system will book the direct trains Paris-Milan, but may struggle with Paris-Naples or Paris-Pisa, both of which require a change of train.
Going from London to Lille or Calais used to be cheaper than going to Paris or Brussels (from '65 return rather than '69), but it's now same price as to Paris or Brussels.
Hotels in Vancouver, Banff, Calgary or Jasper...
S'Hertogenbosch is a 3 hour drive from Calais, or there are direct ferries from Newcastle, Hull & Harwich to Holland, making it very convenient if you live in East Anglia, the North of England or Scotland.
They can only make reservations on direct trains leaving Istanbul as far as Bucharest, Sofia or Belgrade, because they have no reservation computer linked to the reservation system for the rest of Europe, so can't book any trains beyond Belgrade or Bucharest.
Caledonian Sleeper train from London to Scotland: 1st class 1-berth sleeper Caledonian sleeper train from London to Scotland: Standard class 2-berth The Caledonian Sleeper waits to leave London Euston on its 500 mile journey to the Highlands of Scotland.
Step 2, book Eurostar from London to Paris and back.
I always loved travelling on these great sleeper trains between Paris and Florence, Rome and Venice, but Trenitalia (Europe's most incompetent railway) seem to be running them down badly, with poor food, service, cleanliness and timekeeping.
Wales bound?
Comments Feed Off-beat adventures in the Middle East Roll On Down the Highway
You Left off Crater Lake in Oregon, Deepest Lake in the US.
This month: Short-lived short-haul, Inca ruins back in business, a tourist clampdown in the Bay of Bengal and Europe's best connected city.
Lonely Planet blog - 76-Second Travel Show: 'America's best beach' Comments Feed Looking ahead to summer in Europe Meet the beautiful suitcase-backpack
It takes over six days, passing through seven time zones and connects you from Europe to the Far East, just past North Korea.
It's actually Northern Boulevard in Manhasset, north of the Long Island Expressway - lined with high-end boutiques.
More off-the-beaten-track ideas for visitors might meander through the West Country or along the east coast from Suffolk to Northumberland.
A smaller crater inside the main crater also contains a lake.
Headed to Austin for the South By Southwest conferences and festivals?
Way west of the national park, 'Grand Canyon West' features a horseshoe-shaped, glass-floor deck jutting 70-foot out above the canyon floor resting a mere 4000 feet below.
Beach & parking: The seven-mile Coopers Beach is open to the public, and is about 1.5 miles south of the village center.
Spring wildflowers are carpeting the lower elevations, desert parks are at their most pleasant temperatures for exploration, and waterfalls are beginning to flow with full force with the onset of the snowmelt.
Lonely Planet's new Discover Spain travel guide lead you to Spain's best wine regions and more!
Dutch staffer Geartsje said 'The squares in London don't work too well with the Dutch tongue: Leicester Square = Leechester Square?
but the best beer still comes from asia it's 'beer lao'.
Nanga Parbat base camp, maximum altitude 3900 m, from Fairy Meadows.
Gallery hop along Canyon Road.
This adds to Europe's enviable set of high-speed rail links.
The drive from Adelaide is well worth it, as you encounter salt plains, sand dunes, the gibber plains and maybe even a stray camel crossing the Oodnadatta track.
In fact the only truly crap place I've found for second hand book shops was, ironically, Plymouth in South West England, although even there the charity shops are still a good bet.
Robert Reid Lonely Planet author National Parks volunteer snaps a photo of a Kansan family at Gulf Shores National Seashore, near Pensacola, Florida.
A network of lakes, fens, marshes and meadows make up this stunning national park and navigating your way round is easy by boat.
If you're in Asia, Africa or South America, the weather is great almost everywhere.
For four-wheel adventures around the south, pick up Lonely Planet's Trips guide to The Carolinas, Georgia & the South.
You have your choice of high mountain passes, seaside trails, urban explorations, riverside bike paths, vineyard covered hills, and no matter what you choose all roads seem to magically lead to delicious food and wine.
Sweden's capital city has a unique neighbour: a vast playground of 24,000 islands.
From Woomera the track goes off-road, and the desert really starts to show itself.
charlestonoaks Oaks draped with Spanish moss in Charleston
Bicerin in Torino (Turin), Italy.
Yukon Quest, Fairbanks to Whitehorse
Roebling Bridge, connecting Cincinnati, Ohio to Covington, Kentucky.
Stuck in North America's snow?
Night sky from Pinnacles, Australia
It's a nice little picnic area, and the short path has views across a huge meadow to Mt.
In this lovely and still good value city I was able to afford a hotel room, and jolly nice it was too.
Nigel Eberhard captures high tide on Venice's Grand Canal Amber Horsburgh - India
D Live & work in Loire Valley countryside and still dream of lazy summer countryside holidays in France, Italy, Spain, Greece.but a short sharp shot of the buzz and urban excess from a city break recharges other parts 6.
Photo Credit: Katy Walters A network of lakes, fens, marshes and meadows make up this stunning national park and navigating your way round is easy by boat.
Author Joshua Samuel Brown took in the total solar eclipse from his base in Taipei (handy hint: 'Take pictures of children watching the eclipseeveryone loves stuff like that').
esp) Singapore has Hotels, in each terminal you can book in 6 hour blocks, beautiful gardens everywhere, Butterfly gardens free to look at in Terminal 3.
Off a gravel side road, off a two-lane highway, Sand Creek Massacre National Historic Site became the latest of the 391 national parks and sites in 2007.
Manchester city centre was affected on Tuesday night but, like London, appears to have returned to normal.
From Adelaide, the next stop is Port Augusta, a small sea port that is proud to call itself the crossroads of Australia.
What: Pink Night Where: Comacchio to Cattolica, Italy When: 1 July 2011 Rimini beach, complete with pink sunset!
The Golden Roof Challenge sees Olympic, World and European champions compete at pole vault and long jump in front of the city's most famous landmark, the Golden Roof.
The dingy area around Midi/Zuid station this is not.
Javier Panero Lonely Planet author Camel riding in the Sahara
Lake Titicaca in Bolivia/Peru.
The ride is a fine one, passing through lovely parkland, handsome houses and dense forest until arriving in Tervuren.
enigma Enigma code machine at Bletchley Park
June 11, 2010 rozy Report this comment Bosphorus Bridge which connects Europe and Asia.
June 3, 2010 tomweir Report this comment Forth rail bridge outside Edinburgh!
Very good is Asahi extra dry, Japan, Kingfisher India, but nowhere beer is as good as in Austria, Czech republic and Germany.
Many of the suggestions are rural or wilderness destinations: Damascus, Virginia, a common stopping point for through-hikers on the Appalachian Trail; the St. Lawrence River Valley of upstate New York; the nearly deserted beaches of Michigan's Upper Peninsula; the high desert and mountains of eastern Oregon; the 'sky islands' of Arizona's Santa Rita Mountains.
None of the top ten museums were outside North America and Europe.
Mountain ranges along Kabul-Jalalabad road.
With no access by road, the village of Inverie in Knoydart is Scotland's remotest mainland settlement and is accessible only by boat from Mallaig or a 20 mile hike on foot.
The volcanoes, the rice terraces, Bali is about inland beauty and culture and not about beach beauty.
The Calais ferry: target for cross-European wanderers
March 3, 2010 dave1312 Report this comment Where forest-covered hills fall into idyllic beaches, the long overgrown village of Freetown hides: roaming crowds, raging traffic, lost slums; chaotic, vibrant, alive.
Today Howland Island is an uninhabited, bean-shaped, flat, arid 648-acre island midway between Hawaii and Samoa.
Shopping: The 17th-century Jobs Lane (pronounced 'JOBES' thankyouverymuch), around the corner from Main Street, is lined with boutiques from Theory to Ralph Lauren.
National Parks volunteer snaps a photo of a Kansan family at Gulf Shores National Seashore, near Pensacola, Florida.
Not just the summer residence of the Pope but also the site of the Vatican Observatory, Castelgandolfo is a green, lakeside retreat located in a breathtaking location in the Alban Hills nineteen miles southeast of Rome.
Next time you buzz into Sydney, stop by and give it a whirl.
This month: vintage guidebooks, new rail routes in England, big airlines getting in bed together, parking at airports and the airport that's become a park.
In medieval times, the term came up either to allow the bearer to 'pass' through the 'porte' (city wall gate), or, if Louis XIV is to be believed, to travel from ports in ships ('passe ports').
It has more UNESCO World Heritage sites, and it lets you cross off more things off your lifetime to-do list (Rome, Pompeii, Michelangelo's David, Pisa, Last Supper); French food is complicated on purpose, yet Italy's simple food manages to be the best things you ever eaten.
Watch the sun set from the Esplanade Hotel (the 'Espy') with a glass ('pot') of amber nectar ('beer').
This former railway station houses a superb collection of French Impressionist and post-Impressionist works, making it a must-see for any art lover.
The forum were having a great time working out how to learn French on a budget and one of our authors came up with ways to have a good time in London while keeping a few spare quid in your back pockets.
The 5th-century AD Roman road map Tabula Peutingeriana connected the Roman empire from Europe to Asia.
There are extinct volcanoes in the Auvergne, Europe's biggest sand dune at Dune de Pyla, dramatic cliffs such as Corsica's Calanques de Piana.
Paris in the summer trumps Paris in the winter, and snorkeling on a tropical reef beats hiking across a frozen glacier every time.
SPRINGS PRESERVE Appearing in reality TV shows on occasion, this $250 million education complex features a 'Desert Living Center' and two miles of (free) walking trails that piece together Nevada's cultural and natural history.
Library in Peru's Monasterio de la Recoleta
Though the Nile snakes through upper Egypt, passes Aswan and Luxor and then make stately progress through Cairo, this is only part of the mighty river's 4,100-mile journey from various sources to the Nile Delta.
Charleston has beautiful architecture and bustling city parks, a lovely waterfront, eclectic shopping on King Street, and is one of the best restaurant towns in the country,' said boulevardofdef.
Beach reads: BookHampton on Main Street is a good stop for beach reads.
Hwy 49 curves through small historic towns, micro wine countries (Amador County zinfandel, yum!
Public transport and tourist attractions are open as usual, though visitors will notice more police on the streets in British cities and some shops and other businesses may close early.
This train was already pretty zippy, but with the completion of the 78 mile Hogesnelheidslijn Zuid (High-speed Line South) in the Netherlands, journey times have Continue reading 'Europe's high-speed train revolution continues' (0) comments * 18 November 2009 * 7:14am * Filed under Other
From my home base in Portland, Oregon, I traveled to Hong Kong, Singapore, Cairo, Istanbul, Venice, Zurich, Bruges, London, and Paris.
We still had a pretty amazing time " compromise is good " but by the time we arrived in the UK (his home country) I knew it was over.
Our destination is Kala Pattar and Everest base camp starting from Jiri.
And @stephanebazin, Logan Airport in Boston has a transit stop a bit of a walk from the terminal.
Instead of just aiming for Madrid or Barcelona, a place like this arts centre can be the ideal impetus for a north-bound roadtrip to a seaside town.
One of London's greatest citizens, Charles Dickens, spent a month or more in the Kent seaside resort for many summers, writing some of his finest works at the same time.
The park covers over 3000 sq km (bigger than Luxembourg, if that helps) of granite-studded, waterfall-covered, majestic high Sierra wilderness.
The National Maritime Museum, which oversees the site, as well as the Royal Observatory Astronomy Centre, and the surrounding Greenwich Park will continue to be free.
In name and physique, this mountain rides on a truly grand scale.
View of downtown Kabul from the top off King Zahir Shah's tomb in Kabul.
Other attractions include the Magnolia Tree (at 679 Lafayette Ave, between Marcy & Tompkins Aves) and the Brooklyn Children's Museum in Crown Heights.
Its like Nice is the dumping ground for the richer and more beautiful towns adjacent Nice and running around the coast.
But trace those roads back " passing all the roadside billboards, truck stops and huge balls of twine built up along the way " and you'll find your way to the Lincoln Highway, the country's first trans-continental highway system, dating from 1913.
Spring is the perfect time to visit the parks - whether it is for the waterfalls of Yosemite, the wildflowers of Glacier or the baby animals in Yellowstone.
September 11, 2009 carracar Report this comment Santa Fe is perched right next to real mountains.Great day hikes from the edge of town & a fine ski area 15 mi.UP,the road
Anyone making the trip to Abbey Road, one of London's many rock pilgrimages, may feel slightly underwhelmed at what remains a busy, smart street a short walk from St John's Wood tube station.
The highway was a well-maintained, four lane toll road, and a good way to see the country.
Lonely Planet Iceland Travel Guide For more on traveling to and around Iceland, get Lonely Planet's Iceland guidebook.
Kansas, for example, isn't pancake flat (Florida is closer to pancake-flat actually), but rolls gently atop what once where prehistoric seafloors.
Staying in apartment rentals, making meals from local produce from farmer's markets, sticking with neighborhood parks and shops and leaving the big-time museums and chain hotels behind.
in a country town in Veneto, the only day I had in the region my grandfather came from.
Then hop in a car, drive away from the city and head towards the horizon.
So he wondered: is the longest drive a person can make in an westerly direction before crossing into the next time zone from Perce, Quebec, to Mabella, Ont (1673 miles, or 2-1/2 days)?
This extravaganza takes in a dozen Unesco World Heritage sites, including Machu Picchu, Angkor Wat, the Taj Mahal and the Pyramids, and they throw in an 'explorer-in-residence' for free.
And more are telling it now that Dr Beach, aka Stephen Leatherman, picked Coopers Beach at Southampton (the first Hampton; founded in 1640) as America's best beach in 2010.
The Havasu Falls have sand bags at its base and the 100-foot drop of blue-green water now emerges from the side; rerouted waters dried up the Navajo Falls; and the swimming hole below the 200-foot Mooney Falls is filled with silt.
Asia * India to Europe (by land) " 'Going from China to Mongolia is very easy as well.
Work experience student Kyle McLaughlin recommends a trip he took with his family, starting from the city of Adelaide and heading to Coober Pedy, the opal capital of Australia, if not the world.
Stuck in Europe
Notably absent in the top 30: Canada, the entire continent of Africa, Central and Eastern Europe, Central America and the Caribbean.
Bird sign on walking trail through the Hong Kong Wetland Park, Tin Shui Wai, New Territories.
Return to Atlanta and head to Sweet Auburn, the heart of the city's African American history.
Technically, this includes the airport transits and setting foot on the other sovereignty across the border.
It's a good place to hang out after watching performances at the arts centre.
Cuba Top 5 of places with the benefit of hindsight: Vatican City/Rome, Gibraltar, Brazil (in particular Rio and Isla Grande), Greece, Jerusalem.
In Tasmania by Nicholas Shakespeare
Of course the service expectations will vary greatly from place to place.
Robert Reid Lonely Planet author View over Abbottabad
The province is also home to the nation's highest number of species of flora and fauna, including 2500 varieties of wildflowers and plants.
It was busy, noisy and we saw many beggars sitting in the streets and riding the trains, even though I knew to expect more chaos in the South than up North it was still a bit of a shock.
Following an old Gold Rush trail along the Yukon River, the race of up to 50 sleds covers 1023 miles between Whitehorse, Yukon Territory in Canada.
An 11-storey glass tower extension to the southwest corner in the form of a ziggurat " a spiralling stepped pyramid " by the same architects is now under way and will be completed in 2012.
The modern-day appeal of hiking through the wilderness of national parks is to retrieve some of the reality of such explorations.
The barren landscape begins to open up, with dugouts, and the large unused open mines that dot the landscape kilometres before reaching Coober Pedy itself.
In this compact country you're never far from the next town, the next pub, the next restaurant, the next national park or the next impressive castle on your hit-list of highlights.
Lake Como in Italy.
Lake Louise in Canada.
Lake McKenzie in Australia.
It is a lovely old-fashioned city nestled in a valley where two rivers converge.
Many Trans-Siberian Railway travelers cross Russia from Moscow, passing Lake Baikal, then cut south through Mongolia to Beijing.
This same thing happened to me in 1972, while traveling to Florida I was left at the gas station in Valdosta, Ga.
Gallery: Catherine Ferguson Academy Urban Farm in Detroit
Not only were we losing a whole day on the beach in Hawaii, but we missed our rental car reservation right at the same time the cruise ship came in.
It has helped all over Europe (including Italy/Switz), Asia, North Africa.
I am surprised to see South Korea on this list.
The difference in oil prices between Europe and America has to do with taxes.
This was all over the country, east coast to west coast, not just in one state or region.
We have them EVERYWHERE in Europe, including London and Amsterdam.
In 1950 I was left at a gas station in Georgia by my parents while on a trip from Ohio to Miami Fla.
Across Northern Europe: Couch Surfing Europe
Visit Europe and England make Plans to visit Spain Mexico and Hawaii.
Thomas Haden Church Is Upset Over Filming Near His Texas Home (VIDEO) {AOL TV}
This includes Hawaii, Lassen National Park, Death Valley, Crater Lake, Yellowstone.
Places such as the Gulf Coast (oil spill)Louisiana and MIssissippi (Katrina); Michigan (high unemployment); California, Florida, Arizona, Nevada (most severe real estate depression).
Waterfalls are abundant and beach sand comes in white, black, green, gray and several shades in between.
Alluvia Stellenbosch Wine Farm South Africa This wine farm is set on a working wine estate in the heart of the Stellenbosch Winelands and is known for challenging traditional methods of wine making.
At the river town of Lexington he found a Union force under Col. James Mulligan defending the stone building of the Masonic College on a hill overlooking town.
BACK TO AFRICA!!
Although, we live in a very rural area on 4 acres of land surrounded on three sides by 36 more acres of open land.
The jazz hall section was about one street/ block of one and two story dives.
Business trip flight from Cincinnati-Atlanta-Shanghai.
Lao boatmen ply the rivers in long narrow boats, and the sights along the river include a whiskey village, river life, water buffaloes, and the Pak Ou caves if you have the time.
May 29th 2010 8:30PM I went through the same experience numerous years ago in South Florida at the Bert Reynolds Dinner Theater (which is now closed).
Maria Schneider, Star of 'Last Tango in Paris,' Dies Following Illness {PopEater}
Battle of Lexington Reenactment * The Anderson House, Lexington, Missouri * Reenactment of Battle of Fort Davidson, Missouri * Confederate camp at Fort Davidson, Missouri * Camp scene at Fort Davidson, Missouri * Confederate prepare to assault Fort Davidson, Missouri
BEEN TO ITALY, FRANCE SWITZERLAND,ENGLAND 3 TIMES...
There are 118 islands and atolls spread out over five archipelagos.
wine hotels Chateau Les Carrasses France This luxury self-catering estate, including 28 suites, apartments, and villas, is a 19th Century Wine Domaine in the South of France.
Cavas Wine Lodge Argentina Located at the foot of the Andes Mountains and nestled in a 35 acre vineyard, this 14 room lodge offers peace and tranquility in nature.
The 17,000 square foot property spread over two floors is being designed by London-based architects Jestico + Whiles.
First Climbers Arriving In Everest Base Camp Today
According to this article, the first direct passenger plane between the Republic of China (Taiwan) and the People's Republic of China (China) happened early this morning.
Overall they are pleasant and will talk to you at the small local shops more than in the big city dept stores.
September is the perfect month to travel to the east coast to see the fall foliage.
Only in America!
His first stop was Fort Davidson in the Arcadia Valley in southern Missouri.
Ever been to somewhere else (in Europe/Scandinavia) than Sweden?
I know in my state the roads, bridges, water/sewer lines, clearing of tree limbs in rural areas, etc. all need re-done; and we need those JOBS bad.
Just prior to this happening there was a short but intense downpour and this is the storm drain runoff coming up out of the ground.
gregg in Sarasota,FL
Ancient Christian city discovered in Egypt
and I can't wait to see Denali, Glacier, Bryce Canyon, Acadia, Everglades...
Bridgemaker George FerrisIt built it to rival the Paris creation of the Eiffel Tower, a landmark exhibition in 1889 in France.
I would also take a trip to Southern California to surprise step cousins who I have not seen in four years.
General Sterling Price had defeated a large Union force at Wilson's Creek in southwest Missouri and now marched through central Missouri gathering recruits.
But Lonnie and Tania left South America and came home to Copenhagen where I found them here this month using just half their beds.
Obamas in Hawaii: No Christmas Church, Accident Scare, Flight 253, Tennis and Golf {Politics Daily}
VATICAN CITY In Europe Vatican City may pursue this issue to introduce politics with morale & discipline in Europe.
I would love to go out west and visit some of the national park and hike the grand Canyon, then maybe go south to Florida and enjoy the beach.
Now you have highway, gas stations and major bus companies and bus tours coming to their doors daily.
Then it's Lombard Street, a must, and Fisherman's Wharf, parking near the Cable Car Turntable.
try holding the hands of your husband and children in Grand Cayman over the Coral Reef as everyone, for the first time snorkeling, puts there face in the water to see this magnificent artwork of God.
I have a compliment for USAIR Returning from a trip from SC, our plane left late from Savanna,Ga We arrived in late into Charleston; which is a rather large facitily.
We will never forget our French guide to Monet's Gardens in Giverny.
Algarve in southern Portugal (Europe) is a beautiful beach destination with resorts, nightlife, and turquoise waters.
Owhanake Bay Estate New Zealand This accommodation has a lot to offer in terms of nature, as it is not only situated on a boutique winery, but also an olive grove, berry garden, orchard, and among native trees.
CANADIANS WILL COME TO THE U.S. AND HAVE SURGERY AND PAY CASH RATHER THAN WAIT FOR A HOSPITAL BED.
My family flew Delta to Hawaii and back last year.
While drifting towards the border between Italy and France, he nearly collided with Monte Viso, a 12,602 foot high, pyramid shaped peak that towers above the surrounding summits.
Speaking of Florida and a tad off topic about traffic enforcement, here is how the speed works in this state: Leaving from Palm Beach County on I-95 and going North, your speed slowly inches up till you are doing about 80 and cars will still pass you.
Canada: B.C., the garden spot of the Okanogan Valley with ice wines to sample, and fruit stands every .
Changi (Singapore) has a real hotel built into the secure area, a free movie theater, a swimming pool, free WiFi, indoor tropical gardens, and much much more.
At the end of this lane, there is a cottage quaintly called Pickrill Play, take the footpath to the left through a metal gate into a field.
After about 200m take the left at the Y fork in the road into Morton.
Turn left down the track which after approximately 200 metres the path narrows into a footpath passing through the edge of Halloughton Wood.This track follows the old parish boundary mentioned in the Southwell Charter of 956 AD.
At the end of the field follow the path to the right and then left over a small wood bridge into the next field up Cundy Hill.
Follow the bridleway for about 300m when the track turns to the left just before the next field boundary.
Distance 4 miles Time Required 2 hours Maps 1:25,000 Pathfinder Sheries sheet 813(SK64/74) Car Parking and Public Transport Car Parking - There is road side parking down the side roads at Burton Joyce.
Caunton Beck Main Street Caunton, near Newark Tel: 01636 636793 For Location Map click here Caunton
Initially the path follows the left field boundary, continue in a straight line across the field and cross over a wooden style, turning right towards Hoveringham.
Continue straight on with the village football pitch to your left down a narrow strip between fields.
Just after the Gleaners public house, turn left down Park Road East.
This track was a parish boundary in 956 A.D. and you will notice the many different species of tree along this track gives evidence for the great age of this track.
Gibsmere (near Bleasby) and Hoveringham A five mile walk partly along the river Trent and passes by lakes left by gravel extraction.
The Walesby Forest Scout Camp is nearby.
Distance 5 miles Time Required 2 hours Maps 1:25,000 Pathfinder Series sheet 813 (SK 64/74) Car Parking and Public Transport Car Parking - Car parking by the road side in Boat Lane at Hazelford ferry.
Burton Joyce is on the A612 Nottingham to Southwell road and about 6 miles North East of Nottingham City Centre.
Southwell Town Trail, Historical building trail around Southwell, passes lots of interesting pubs and Inns,Free, details from Nottinghamshire County Council - Heritage.
Now keeping to the left hand field boundary, follow the footpath to a wooden style next to a metal gate which you cross into the next field.
By a bridge with crossing farm track continue straight on to follow the footpath by the stream which is still on your right.
All Bar One Nottingham All Bar One Nottingham is a stylish wine bar ideal for eating, drinking and relaxing in the city - and the perfect place to meet when around the Lace Market, Hockley area or The Weekday Cross Monument.
Distance 4 miles Time Required 2 hours Maps 1:25,000 Pathfinder Sheries sheet 796 (SK65/75) Car Parking and Public Transport Car Parking - Take the Upton to Hockerton Road.
The track goes slightly down hill, initially between hedges and then still in the same direction follows the left hand field boundary.
Has stream with a grassy bank next to the beer garden and childrens play area.
It is one of the finest examples of 14th century timber-framed architecture in England Market Place NG24 1DU 1413 - Bowling Green Market Place ---- Railway Hotel Market Place ---- Northern Hotel Appleton Gate 1868 - Fisherman's Arms 7 Guildhall Street ---- Star Inn 7 Guildhall Street 1864 - 1910
Near the marketplace is a Museum and Art Gallery, Leeming Street, Mansfield.
Walk past Spring Water Golf Club and take the public footpath to the right by the side of the Golf Clubs car park.
The path now follows the left hand field hedge to a wood style into Boat Lane.
Distance 2 or 4 miles Time Required 1 or 2 hours Maps 1:25,000 Pathfinder Series sheet 813 (SK 64/74) Car Parking and Public Transport Car Parking - From Lowdham, turn left down the first lane after crossing Gunthorpe bridge.
The footpath follows a wide gravelled track between the racecourse boundary fence and the River Greet.
After 800m just before you reach pylons turn right through a gate by the side of a cattle grid down the farm track and after 250m turn left at the minor road towards Laxton.
The Southwell Trail passes nearby.
The Southwell trail is nearby to the north.
For families, the popular Water Meadows Swimming and Fitness Centre in Bath Street with its superb leisure and competition pools, flume, poolside piazza-style cafe, poolside bubble pool, water fountains, wave machine and tropical plants and temperatures is well worth a visit.
Caunton Beck Main Street Caunton, near Newark NG23 6AB Tel: 01636 636793 For Location Map click here The Caunton Beck at Caunton is a delightful country pub is situated in a old building recently renovated.
Walesby Scout Camp, Thorseby Park and Clumber Park (National Trust) are nearby.
Hoveringham Hall is a three storey 19th century house and was once the home of General Huthwaite of the Bengal army.
A Short Walk Around Vicar Water - The Trails of Vicar Water Series.
The fine village of East Bridgford is based around a road pattern that forms two squares.
Follow this long grassy strip to another metal gate and cross the wooden style on the left back into the large field.
Middle Claydon Claydon House - National Trust, Middle Claydon, near Buckingham, Buckinghamshire.
Distance 8, 5 or 4 miles Time Required 4 hours Maps 1:25,000 Pathfinder Sheries sheet 813(SK64/74) Car Parking and Public Transport Car Parking - There is a car park in the centre of Calverton next to the library and adequate roadside parking can also be found.
Caythorpe is about 2 miles East of Lowdham, and this small, attractive village, straddles the road towards the river Trent.
After about 1 kilometre there is a sharp bend in the road to the right and a footpath that goes straight on Take this footpath over the wooden style and follow the left hand field boundary, then over a second style to a gap in the hedge at the end of the next field still following the hedge on your left.
The Brownlow Arms at High Marnham is a very pleasant pub with good food and beers close to the River Trent and High Marnham power station.
The two storey Mill was built in the18th century and is now no longer used.
Distance 4 miles Time Required 2 hours Maps 1:25,000 Pathfinder Series sheet 813 (SK 64/74) Car Parking and Public Transport Car Parking There is street car parking only along the road at Westhorpe (please do not block gateways when parking) and in the car parks in Southwell less than a mile away.
Distance 5 miles Time Required 3 hours Maps 1:25,000 Pathfinder Series sheet 780 (SK 66/76) Car Parking and Public Transport Car Parking - In and around the village and the visitors centre.
Visitor center set in 25 acres of attractive woodland and parkland.
The riverside village of Farndon is just off the A46 Fosse road some 2 miles south of Newark dates to Roman times.
Distance 5 miles Time Required 3 hours Maps 1:25,000 Pathfinder Sheries sheet 796 (SK65/75) Car Parking and Public Transport Car Parking - There is a good car park by the side of the river on the Newark Road just out of the village of Fiskerton on the right hand side.
The present Kelham Hall was built between 1859 and 1862 by Sir George Gilbert.
Bassetlaw Area Walks in the Meden Valley - Creswell and Whaley Thorns, 4 miles.
Although there are few dwellings along this isolated boundary, there used to be a cottage at the edge of Halloughton Woods with its own well.
Go over a style into the next field with the footpath following the hedge on the right.
At the golf course turn right until you meet the river Greet where you turn left to follow the path by the side of the Greet to Rolleston Mill, passing around to the left of the mill and on around the metalled road.
Initially by the side of the stream with old pollarded willows and then at the end of the field turn right up the farm track still following the field boundary slightly up hill.
Mansfield Area Mansfield Woodhouse Trail - Historical building trail around Mansfiel Woodhouse, passes lots of interesting pubs and Inns,Free, details from Nottinghamshire County Council - Heritage.
This continues up hill where you will find the path going down two steps and then up 3 steps into the next field.
Continue to follow the left hand field boundary to cross another wooden style next to a metal gate.
Despite this industrialization there are fine wildlife walks in the area.
Up until the middle of this century there was a ferry boat service over to the other side of the river at Stoke Field.
Oxton Oxton and Robin Hood Hill Walk - 4 Miles Click here for details Teversal Teversal Trails Visitor Centre, Carnarvon Street, Teversal, Sutton-in-Ashfield, Tel.
Public Transport - There is no nearby rail service for Calverton.
Take the footpath over the small concrete bridge over two stile crossing in front of Fiskerton Mill.
Old Sun Inn Main Street Colton near Tadcaster LS24 8EP Tel: 01904 744261 For Location Map click here YE Old Sun Inn in the quiet village of Colton is a lovely 17th century beamed pub offering good, traditional food.
This fine church has a Treasury displaying silver from this and other churches in the area.
Kneesall is an attractive red-brick village built on the top of a hill on the Newark to Ollerton road.
The small village of Walesby is about 4 miles north of Ollerton on the B6387.
The Anchor Inn at Retford is a friendly, town centre pub, good food and good range of beers.
Follow the right hand hedge still in a straight line and after 100m go through a gap in the hedge to join a track where you turn right.
Edingley is a small village 3 miles north east of Southwell on the Southwell to Farnsfield road.
Ferry Farm Park is a little further on towards Hoveringham.
There are also some good short walks from the center of Eakring village.
A pretty Trentside village between Southwell and Lowdham now encroached on its eastern side by gravel lakes.
Fiskerton is a pleasant Trent side village with some fine houses along the waterfront.
From the Car park by the river Trent turn left and follow the road into Fiskerton turning first right into Station Road.
Family owned free-house, set in 4 acres of tranquil woodland, yet only 5 minutes drive from the city centre of historic Lincoln.
If you start from the parish church, Meadow Lane is 2nd right on the main Nottingham to Southwell away from Nottingham.
The Rufford Arms at Mansfield is a good real ale pub with a good childrens play area in the garden.
This part of the walk can be very muddy and no doubt the original parish boundary followed the driest route used to walk between Halloughton Woods and South Hill.
The church dates back to the 13th century and has a fine cedar tree in the pretty churchyard.This area was the home of William Booth, founder of the Salvation Army
Continue to follow the track until it turns off to the right between hedges, still continue in a straight line keeping to the footpath by the right hand side of the hedge.
Distance 6 or 2 miles Time Required 3 hours Maps 1:25,000 Pathfinder Sheries sheet 796 (SK65/75) Car Parking and Public Transport Car Parking - There is a good car park by the side of the river on the Newark Road just out of the village of Fiskerton on the right hand side.
When you reach crossroads with two farm tracks with the main road going off to the right, continue straight on down the farm track.
Public Transport - There is no nearby rail service but there is a regular bus service from Nottingham to Oxton.
There is a beer garden and heated patio outside and the Harrington Arms has a longstanding reputation for its beers and good value, wide ranging food.
The path drops down the hill to a wood gate into the next field.
Now follow the wood fence to your left up to a metal gates which you pass through to the left of the church through the churchyard.
At the end of the field go through two metal gates following the footpath along the hedge on the right.
About 15m before the end of this next field there is a gap in the hedge, cross over the style into the next field.
houses at Bulcote, Nottingham
The path continues along the same line to a gap in the hedge on the left hand side.
Historical building trail around Laxton, Free, details from Nottinghamshire County Council - Heritage.
Lambley church was rebuilt in 1470.
WORKSOP The Mallard at Worksop is situated at Worksop Train Station.
Proceed down the hill and follow the road to the left returning to the car park.
Nearby are the ruins of the palace of the archbishops of York dating back to the 14th century.
First grand carillon in Britain.
Bulcote church is on the side of the main road.
Follow the footpath straight on through a gap in the hedge to the next field towards a line of trees.
When the track bends to the right, take the footpath on the left by the side of a culvert between wire fencing.
Proceed in the direction of Lowdham down Main Street towards the parish church.
Doe Lea Hardwick Hall - National Trust is one of the most beautiful buildings in England with its walls of glass and dates back to the late 16th century.
Follow this footpath with the hedge now to your left until you reach the Fiskerton to Bleasby road.
Follow the field boundary keeping the hedge to your left and after going around the corner of the field, the path crosses into the next field after approx.
More about All Bar One Nottingham Buses and trams from all over the city call nearby, and the main railway station is not far away.
The grassy footpath runs alongside the river bank and some fine views of the river Trent and the tree hung hills opposite can be enjoyed.
Just past the weir on the left of the footpath there are exposed layers of clay showing the Keuper Marl Clay This type of clay is typical of South East Nottinghamshire and determines the types of plants, trees and shrubs that grow locally.
The Dovecote at Laxton is just opposite the Laxton visitor's centre, this traditional pub is at the heart of this village, famous for its open field system of farming and its old ruined castle.
At the T junction with the Four Bells Inn on the right turn left down the main road.
West Bridgford is about 2 miles south of Nottingham city centre.
From the car park by the River Trent follow the road around a right hand bend take the footpath on the left signed to Kneeton and River Trent.
Many houses along the Kneeton Road are gable-ended to the road in a medieval manner.
River Trent View towards Gunthorpe Nottingham
This track takes you up the hill away from the Trent to the Kneeton to East Bridgford road where you turn right towards East Bridgford.
Continue in a straight line up Micklebarrow Hill and at the top cross the small field to a wood style ove a wire fence.
Westhorpe is a pretty hamlet which probably has farming origins dating back to before medieval times.
Some 200 m from the main Nottingham Railway station, it stocks a wide range of real ales.
A network of trails featuring a sculpture trail and coal garden running along former railway trackbeds..
Continue around the second hill towards Oxton The footpath follows a track for some 100m and leaves the track to continue straight on by the side of a large tree and across a field.
Farnsfield is a large village on the road between Southwell and Mansfield.
There were originally 170 nodding donkey oil pumps in Duke's Wood, near Eakring, producing more than 600,000 tonnes of oil between 1939 and 1965.
Pass through the metal gate turning right and follow the field boundary.
Many workers were compelled to work for very low wages as there was little other work in the Southwell area.
Follow the field boundary keeping the hedge on your left and when you see a further hedge about 50m in front of you running parallel to the first hedge, cross over to this hedge and follow the hedge around to the left.
At the main road turn right, past the Weatsheaf Inn and take the 2nd left down Meadow Lane crossing over the busy Nottingham to Southwell Road and back to your start point.
Fine views of the Minster can be enjoyed from the path.Then continuing in the same direction, cross the field to the edge of the wood and continue in a straight line along the side of the wood keeping it to your left for just 30 metres before taking the footpath to the left down a bank to a concrete footbridge over Westhorpe Dumble.
Fishponds were recorded here in he first half of the 17th century but may well date back to the early 13th century
Calverton, Woodborough and Lambley This 8 mile walk is through typical Nottinghamshire countryside and passes through three villages of historical importance for framework knitting although Calverton was influenced by the coal industry when the hosiery industry declined.
Fiskerton Fiskerton , Rolleston and Upton Walk - 6 or 2.5 Miles Click here for details Gibsmere Gibsmere (near Bleasby) and Hoveringham Walk - 5 Miles Click here for details Hoveringham Ferry Farm Park, Boat Lane, Hoveringham, Nottinghamshire.
After abou 1 miles, Trent Lane joins the footpath, but continue to follow the river.
Free, a circular routes around Vicar Water Country Park.
NOTTINGHAM The Fletcher and Firkin is a well located pub near the castle, athough fairly basic sells a range of real ales.
A few hundred yards from the hall, situated within the trees is the delightful parish church.
Turn left towards Southwell Racecourse and turn right immediately after the entrance.
This road was constructed in 18th century and follows very old field boundaries until you meet the main Fiskerton - Bleasby road.
Just outside Fiskerton on the Newark Road is the impressive four storied Fiskerton Mill situated on a fast flowing stream feeding into the Trent.
Public Transport - There is a railway station in Burton Joyce with a frequent service (Nottingham to Newark line).
At the end of the wood, cross the style into the next field and follow the track between the two small hills.
The Kings Head at Collingham is on the main road and has been thoughtfully modernised in a Bistro style with polished wood floors and modern art adorning the plaiin walls and is reputation for fine food at reasonable prices is well deserved, although the vegetarian choice could be extended.
The Caunton Beck at Caunton is a delightful country pub is situated in a old building recently renovated.
Gringley On The Hill is an attractive village of red-bricked farms, barn, cottages and dovecotes is perched on a 250 ft high hill and has good views over the surrounding countryside.
There are fine river side walks by the Trent and the castle.
After crossing fields the footpath goes along an elevated tree-lined path.
It is one of the earliest Christian sites in Nottinghamshire dating to Saxon times.
To your left is an large mound with a pond in the centre is this an old fishpond?
Newark's two museums house exhibits showing Roman pottery, siege pieces and the Wooden printing press used to print Lord Byron's first works.
Follow this track between hedges until it turns off to the right where you pick up the footpath over a style initially between hedges towards Burton Joyce.
The footpath joins a gravelled path between hedges with mature trees to the right.
Follow the right hand field boundary to the right and follow this bridleway, across the field, over a gravel track into the next field.
Teversal Grange Country Inn at Sutton in Ashfield is at the start of the Teversal Trail this popular Inn and Restaurant serves very good value food lunchtime and evenings and has live entertainment on weekend evenings.
Britains only double track main line steam railway.
Originally a farming villageand in the 19th century a frame knitting village, Woodborough has in recent years expanded with modern houses built for Nottingham commuters.
The path goes between trees by the side of the lake and when you reach the next field, turn left towards Burton Joyce and walk along the leftside of the field away from the lake.
Cross the church yard again keeping an the left hand side to a small wooden gate leading to a paved footpath between two open wooden fences, A second gate leads to a short road taking you up to the main road in Upton (Southwell - Newark road) where you turn right.
Strelley is some 4 miles to the west of Nottingham city center and still retains some cottages built for workers of the Strelley Estate.
Initially follow the left hand field boundary and once you have passed under power cables take the style into the next field with the hedge now on your right.
Pass into the next field and continue to follow the left hand field boundary in a Southerly direction.
The Full Moon Morton is a delightful and popular village pub with a lot of character serves well kept beers including Theakstons and guest beers.
When the path leaves the wood into a field continue in the same direction along the bridleway alongside the hedge on the right.
Duke's wood is now a protected site with five pumps, recently restored, remaining forming part of a wildlife and industrial archaeological trail through woodland.
Although the original church in Lambley was built in 1150 AD the present church was constructed in 1480 by Lord Cromwell.
Lambley is an attractive village between Lowdham and Arnold.
The present stone and brick bridge dates back to 1855.
The manor of Lambley was granted to the Cromwell family after the Norman conquest.
A large railway viaduct with 15 arches, built in 1875, dominates the center of the town.
Nearby, on the ridge between Lambley and the river Trent at Lodge Farm can be found an Iron Age Hill fort.
Beer garden at back of the car park.
NEWARK The Mail Coach at Newark is a Georgian pub near the town centre has a wide range of well kept real ales and is well worth a visit.
Wolsthorpe's church (St James) is made of ironstone East Bridgford East Bridgford and the River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Gibsmere Gibsmere (near Bleasby) and Hoveringham Walk - 5 Miles Click here for details Gunthorpe Gunthorpe and River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Hoveringham Ferry Farm Park, Boat Lane, Hoveringham, Nottinghamshire.
It has a single rampart, ditch and counterscarp on the west, and three banks and ditches on the east.
Still continuing in a straight line cross the next field towards the end of a line of trees and then follow the field edge a short way to cross a wooden style into the next field.
Calverton Calverton , Woodborough and Lambley Walk - 8, 5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Fiskerton Fiskerton , Rolleston and Upton Walk - 6 or 2.5 Miles Click here for details Gibsmere Gibsmere (near Bleasby) and Hoveringham Walk - 5 Miles Click here for details Hoveringham Ferry Farm Park, Boat Lane, Hoveringham, Nottinghamshire.
Nottingham, the self-proclaimed Queen of the Midlands, is said to be one of England's finest cities and its people travel to the city center from all parts of the Midlands for its wide variety of shops and stores.
Framework knitting was the old industry here and there are several good examples of framework knitting cottages just off Main Street with their large, wide windows to allow good light for the work.
Although the church dates back to the 13th century this village is now a dormitory village of Nottingham and with modern housing straggling either side of the main road.The river Trent is nearby and there are some good walks to be found.
At first glance the large open fields look like the large fields of today with their enclosure hedges removed but on closer inspection you will see that the large fields are divided up into narrow strips.
There are two large shopping centers, the Broadmarsh Centre with 80 stores, to the south near the main railway station and the Victoria Centre with 120 shops and stores all under one roof about one mile to the North.
The Bramley apple at Sourthwell is old pub is now fitted out in a Bistro style but serving pub grub at lunchtime and restaurant food in the evening - a straightforward town pub for local people with friendly and helpful service, selling good quality, good value food.
The Fellows, Morton & Clayton on the canalside in Nottingham is an attractive and atmospheric pub is situated near to the canal museum, the Chesterfield canal and Nottingham train station is only a short walk away.
Follow the track past a boatyard to your left to the weir.
Hodstock Hodsock Priory Gardens, off B6045 at Blyth, less than 2 miles from the A1(M).
The Plough at Hickling is a lovely old pub, just opposite the pond (Grantham canal basin) in the village of Hickling.
At the river turn left, returning past the Bromley Arms and then back to the car park and your start point.
To your right are the farmsteads or closes which stretch away from the main road towards Hall Lane and which in the past would have been used for the keeping of animals, growing of crops and orchards.
There is ample parking and an area to the rear of the pub with picnic benches with good views over the Trent Valley.
There is now little sign of the frame knitting industry that was important in this area in the 19th century.
We're literally round the corner from Nottingham's underground history in the City of Caves, and the Galleries of Justice.
Fiskerton Fiskerton , Rolleston and Upton Walk - 6 or 2.5 Miles Click here for details Gibsmere Gibsmere (near Bleasby) and Hoveringham Walk - 5 Miles Click here for details Gunthorpe Gunthorpe and River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Hoveringham Ferry Farm Park, Boat Lane, Hoveringham, Nottinghamshire.
Follow this footpath keeping the hedge to your right and at the end of the field you join a farm track to the right of Fiskerton Grange.
There is a very clear ridge and furrow pattern in the field dating back to pre-enclosure times when the open field system of farming was used.
In fact it dates back to c1500 when it was much smaller consisting of just a small two storey building with hall and parlour on the ground floor and a bedroom over with a small single storey area with a kitchen and buttery.
The Hoveringham Ash lagoons to your left are gravel pits which were filled with the ash from the burnt coal from nearby Staythorpe Power stations.
Nottingham was recently ranked the second best shopping area in England outside London with approximately 2 million regular shoppers.
Walk along the side of the Trent through the edge of the woods which rises up on the hills away from the river for approximately one mile to a muddy car parking area under the trees, used by fisherman.
The Manvers Arms at Cotgrave provides good cheap food and an attractive garden.
Lowdham is a large village on the A612 between Nottingham and Southwell.
This popular 16th century country pub is on the main Southwell to Lowdham road.
At the crossroads by the church, turn right down the hill down Trent Lane.
The footpath follows the right side of the road with sunken hedge lined lane.
In the village, there is a traditional frame knitters workshop is amongst the 18th century buildings and watermill opposite the pub's car park.
High Marnham is about 4 miles east of Tuxford.
Tom Browns Restaurant at Gunthorpe is a busy riverside bistro style restaurant.
After approximately 200m cross over into the adjacent field and continue to follow the hedge passing through the style by the right side of a metal gate.
With the advent of the Nottingham to Grantham railway in 1850, this market town has now become a dormitory town for Nottingham workers.
From Meadow Lane in Burton Joyce walk towards the River Trent.
At the end of this field the bridleway crosses between the hedges so that the hedge is now on your right.
Wolsthorpe's church (St James) is made of ironstone East Bridgford East Bridgford and the River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Fiskerton Fiskerton , Rolleston and Upton Walk - 6 or 2.5 Miles Click here for details Gibsmere Gibsmere (near Bleasby) and Hoveringham Walk - 5 Miles Click here for details Gunthorpe Gunthorpe and River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Hoveringham Ferry Farm Park, Boat Lane, Hoveringham, Nottinghamshire.
Wolsthorpe's church (St James) is made of ironstone Burton Joyce Burton Joyce Bulcote and the River Trent Walk 4.5 Miles Click here for details East Bridgford East Bridgford and the River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Gibsmere Gibsmere (near Bleasby) and Hoveringham Walk - 5 Miles Click here for details Gunthorpe Gunthorpe and River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Hoveringham Ferry Farm Park, Boat Lane, Hoveringham, Nottinghamshire.
Rail - The nearest railway station (Nottingham to Newark line) is at Bleasby approximately 1 miles away.
St Peter's church was built in the13th century and restored in the 19th century.
The present chancel dates back to 13th century with a 14th century nave.
Some 4 miles south of Retford, the small village of Elkesley is just off the A1, Great North Road.
Just past Bulcote is the Mulberries Coffee Shop in the grounds of the Tall Trees Garden Centre.
Public Transport - Bus -There are buses to Fiskerton from Nottingham and Newark through the Trentside villages (S3 Pathfinder) and also from Mansfield, Southwell and Newark (29A).
Morton, Fiskerton, Bleasby and River Trent A five mile walk, partly along the river Trent and through the delightful villages of Morton, Bleasby and Fiskerton.
It is situated on the river Ryton on the edge of the Midlands coalfield.
The bridge of boats had been located somewhat upstream of the present bridge, the road then passing between Kelham church and the hall.
Upton and Micklebarrow Hill A four mile walk through the Trentside countryside and close to Southwell racecourse, part of the walk follows the Trent Valley Way.
Costock is a small village on the A60 south of Nottingham between Bunny and Rempstone.The village has a small medieval church with Victorian additions and the Manor House dates back to the 16th century.
RADCLIFFE ON TRENT RADCLIFFE ON TRENT Radcliffe on Trewnt is a large commuter village about 6 miles east of Nottingham.
Large village, with extensive modern estate housing is some 4 miles South of Bingham.
When the track peters out the footpath turns left and then immediately right to follow alongside the hedge and through a gap into the next field.
Calverton Calverton , Woodborough and Lambley Walk - 8, 5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Fiskerton Fiskerton , Rolleston and Upton Walk - 6 or 2.5 Miles Click here for details Gibsmere Gibsmere (near Bleasby) and Hoveringham Walk - 5 Miles Click here for details Gunthorpe Gunthorpe and River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Hoveringham Ferry Farm Park, Boat Lane, Hoveringham, Nottinghamshire.
Sheep, Kuni pigs, angora goats, Arnie the largest bullock in the UK and other animals.
After 200m the track turns off towards Hill Farm but we continue in the same direction taking the track where after 50m there is a metal gate.
This crosses a short distance diagonally across a field to another wood style that leads into the next field.
The Old mill at Dover Beck was known to be a corn mill in the early 18th century.
East Bridgford East Bridgford and the River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Fiskerton Fiskerton , Rolleston and Upton Walk - 6 or 2.5 Miles Click here for details Gibsmere Gibsmere (near Bleasby) and Hoveringham Walk - 5 Miles Click here for details Hoveringham Ferry Farm Park, Boat Lane, Hoveringham, Nottinghamshire.
The footpath keeps to the left of the field and after 300m cross the wood style to a track (Hall or Back Lane) and turn right down the hedged lane over another style.
Calverton Calverton , Woodborough and Lambley Walk - 8, 5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Doe Lea Hardwick Hall - National Trust is one of the most beautiful buildings in England with its walls of glass and dates back to the late 16th century.
Beeston is about 5 miles South West of Nottingham City Centre.
There are frequent trains from Nottingham to Lowdham station (Nottingham to Newark service).
The village church of St. Peters stands on one of the oldest Christian sites in Nottinghamshire and dates back to circa 13th century.
The footpath initially follows the right hand field boundary and then overhead power lines and then turns off to the right to cross over the stream over a small bridge gated at each end.
Follow the footpath for a short distance by the side of the Greet and continue across a large field to Rolleston Church.
St Peter's church, with its nine pinacled square tower and larger central pinacle, has its origins back in the 13th century.
Refreshments East Bridgford The Reindeer - Bar Snacks Royal Oak - Bar Snacks Gunthorpe ( mile from start of walk) Several Inns serving Bar Snacks Route and Points of Interest Care:- This walk in part is along the River Trent.
The Staunton Arms at Staunton in the Vale is a traditional country pub with good food and a nice atmosphere, run by John and Unis Harker.
The Museum and Art Gallery inside Nottingham Castle contain a range of historical and contemporary art exhibitions.
Go through a gap into the next field, continue to keep to the right edge of the field.
There is a further small car park with picnic benches about 1/4 mile on the left hand side of the road just before a small bridge.
The Chequers severs good food including house specialities made to old English recipes.
There is a further small car park with picnic benches about 1/4 mile on the left hand side of the road just before a small bridge Public Transport - Bus -There are buses to Fiskerton from Nottingham and Newark (S3 Pathfinder) and from Mansfield, Southwell and Newark (29A).
It lies on the main Newark to Mansfield road.
With its elevated position over the Erewash valley, it has good views over the surrounding countryside now scarred with industrial activity.
The Martin Arms at Colston Bassett is a beautiful country inn in a delightful village has a well deserved reputation throughout Nottinghamshire for the quality and variety of its food.
Refreshments on or close to the route Calverton The Gleaners - Bar Snacks The White Lion - Bar Snacks
Cross over the small wooden bridge and continue to follow the stream until you reach a metal gate where you turn right.
Laxton Laxton and Moorhouse Walk - 5.5 Miles Click here for details Worksop Mr Straws House - National Trust.
A bust of the saracen high in the wall along the colonnade next to the Market Place, marks the spot of the old inn.
Laxton Laxton and Moorhouse Walk - 5.5 Miles Click here for details Worksop Mr Straws House - National Trust.
On Lincoln edge near the Viking Way.
There is a large Beer Garden and tables outside Nice garden.
Cross the main road, bearing left and take the public bridleway that goes behind charming Bucote Chapel.
The Britannia at Farndon is a popular pub situated by the side of the river Trent and provides a wide range of foods and good beers.
At the river turn right down the Trent Valley Way by the side of the large nursing home, which was until recently the Star and Garter Inn.
This section of the walk is very rich in flora and fauna and is particularly attractive in the spring when the primroses are in flower.
The Chequers Inn at Ranby is in a good canalside spot with water terrace
The Regency Hotel at Worksop is close to the Town centre.
The trails follow the track beds of the former colliery railways which, together with the local footpaths, provide a network of varied walks.
The Stones of the Monks Way in Stelley, Cossall and Ilkeston, 7 miles.
Cranmer's mound to the east of St. Thomas's church is a Norman motte close to the site of the manor house where Thomas Cranmer was born.
East Bridgford East Bridgford and the River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Fiskerton Fiskerton , Rolleston and Upton Walk - 6 or 2.5 Miles Click here for details Gibsmere Gibsmere (near Bleasby) and Hoveringham Walk - 5 Miles Click here for details Gunthorpe Gunthorpe and River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Hoveringham Ferry Farm Park, Boat Lane, Hoveringham, Nottinghamshire.
Nearby is Notts County Sailing Club and on Sundays during the winter and most days during the summer you can see a range of dinghies and windsurfers sailing on the two gravel lakes.
View of Old Ox Camp, ancient Hill fort in Nottinghamshire
Situated actually on the platform the pub offers a view over the local railway line.
The footpath initially follows the left hand field boundary passing past Averham Park house which can be seen through the trees on the left.
South Leverton is a small village in the North East of Nottinghamshire about 5 miles east of Retford on the A620, is situated in flat open countryside a few miles from the river Trent.
Several roads converged here including Trent Lane from East Bridgford and the track known as Bridgford Street which connects the old Roman town off Margidunum on the Fosse way which is now underneath a large roundabout near to Bingham!
Childrens play area beyond the car park and picnic benches at the front of the pub.
After 800m, at the dip in the track, some 100m before a wood, take the footpath which follow the right hand field boundary by a hedge and a ditch.
Follow the track at first along the left side of the field and then between hedges until you reach Averham Park.
Separate no smoking restaurant called The Buttercross at the rear with good views serving good value home cooked foods.
Close to Carsington Water.
The Crown Inn at Rolleston, Nottingham
At the top turn left and and after 100m go through the wooden gate down the farm track between hedges to the right.
The earlier settlers felt safer following the ridges than the valleys.
The canal was built by the Romans in AD120 joining the rivers Witham and Trent and is England's oldest surviving canal.
The Travellers Rest is actually along Mapperley Plains, some 2 miles from Lambley.
There is a large car park at the rear and a children's play area.
Circular service from Ollerton and Retford, Mon.
The Victoria Hotel at Beeston is an atmospheric award winning Tynemill Victorian pub built 1899 next to the busy Beeston railway station - on the Derby to Nottingham main line.
Short walk from Worksop Town centre.
Ashfield Area A Tour around Historic Selston.
The bridleway follows the stream gradually up hill where you go through the wooden gate at the top of the field and continue straight across the field to cross into the next field where you turn right.
These gates stop livestock moving out of a field.
Oxton and Robin Hood Hill This four mile walk takes you to Oldox camp, one of the largest remaining hill forts in Nottinghamshire with good views over the surrounding countryside.
Although the footpath generally goes in a straight line for the next kilometer it crosses from field to field.
The path follows a ditch for a short distance and continues in a straight line to cross the field.
Bus - There is also a regular bus service (S3 - Pathfinder) that serves the villages in the Trent Valley between Nottingham and Newark Refreshments Bleasby The Wagon and Horses The Manor Farm Tea Shop - Cream Teas Bleasby Post Office - Cold Drinks, Ice Creams etc Hoveringham The Marquis of Granby
Hardwick Old Hall owned by English Heritage, now in ruins but predates Hardwick Hall is also well worth a visit.
Cross over a small footbridge taking the path to the left which leads to a gap in the hedge into a field.
Continue along this road into East Bridgford, passing the Reindeer Inn on the right hand side.
Burton Joyce Burton Joyce Bulcote and the River Trent Walk 4.5 Miles Click here for details Calverton Calverton , Woodborough and Lambley Walk - 8, 5 or 4 Miles Click here for details East Bridgford East Bridgford and the River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Fiskerton Fiskerton , Rolleston and Upton Walk - 6 or 2.5 Miles Click here for details Gibsmere Gibsmere (near Bleasby) and Hoveringham Walk - 5 Miles Click here for details Gunthorpe Gunthorpe and River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Hoveringham Ferry Farm Park, Boat Lane, Hoveringham, Nottinghamshire.
Cross a style, then 2 gates and a style to a lane (Orchard Close).
The Playhouse Cafe Bar in Nottingham is in modern premises, next to the Playhouse Theatre.
Burton Joyce Burton Joyce Bulcote and the River Trent Walk 4.5 Miles Click here for details Calverton Calverton , Woodborough and Lambley Walk - 8, 5 or 4 Miles Click here for details East Bridgford East Bridgford and the River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Gibsmere Gibsmere (near Bleasby) and Hoveringham Walk - 5 Miles Click here for details Gunthorpe Gunthorpe and River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Hoveringham Ferry Farm Park, Boat Lane, Hoveringham, Nottinghamshire.
The local Woodhouse stone from Mansfield Woodhouse, was used to build the House of Commons in London.
We serve real ales brewed on site including Traditional, Moonlight and Over the Moon
This is known as Stony balk and was at one time a paved way across the field.
Calverton Calverton , Woodborough and Lambley Walk - 8, 5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Huthwaite Brierley Forest Park & Visitor Centre, off Skegby Road, Huthwaite, Sutton in Ashfielf Tel.
When you reach the end of the field, continue straight on by first turning right through the metal gate then immediately left into Cheveral Woods.
Now follow the right hand field hedge and cross over a concrete bridge to a path between narrow hedges to the main road in Hoveringham where you turn right away from the church and one inn at Hoveringham - The Marquis of Granby.
Free, general guide including map of trails, within the park.
Today there is a strict three course rotation of the strips with Winter sown wheat, Spring sown crops and grass in rotation.
Burton Joyce Burton Joyce Bulcote and the River Trent Walk 4.5 Miles Click here for details East Bridgford East Bridgford and the River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Fiskerton Fiskerton , Rolleston and Upton Walk - 6 or 2.5 Miles Click here for details Gibsmere Gibsmere (near Bleasby) and Hoveringham Walk - 5 Miles Click here for details Gunthorpe Gunthorpe and River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Hoveringham Ferry Farm Park, Boat Lane, Hoveringham, Nottinghamshire.
Distance 4 miles Time Required 1 hours Maps 1:25,000 Pathfinder Sheries sheet 796 (SK65/75) Car Parking and Public Transport Car Parking - From the roundabout by Oxton take the A6097 dual carriageway north for just under 2 kilometres and turn off to the right on the road back to Oxton just opposite the turn for Blidworth.
From the car park continue along the Trent passing on either side of a large circular depression.
The Hearty Goodfellow in Southwell was refurbished to a very high standard in 2002.
Lee of nearby Calverton.
Burton Joyce Burton Joyce Bulcote and the River Trent Walk 4.5 Miles Click here for details Calverton Calverton , Woodborough and Lambley Walk - 8, 5 or 4 Miles Click here for details East Bridgford East Bridgford and the River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Fiskerton Fiskerton , Rolleston and Upton Walk - 6 or 2.5 Miles Click here for details Gibsmere Gibsmere (near Bleasby) and Hoveringham Walk - 5 Miles Click here for details Gunthorpe Gunthorpe and River Trent Walk - 2.5 or 4 Miles Click here for details Hoveringham Ferry Farm Park, Boat Lane, Hoveringham, Nottinghamshire.
The left hand lane (Bath Lane) leads to the site of the now disused St Catherine Well which is approximately 200 m from the cross roads.
In the nearby park is the old church which fell into disuse when the Victorian church with its grand spire was build in 1892.
The birthplace of Augustus Charles Gregory, the first man to explore the interior of Australia and earned him the name Protector of the Aborigines.
Nottingham Castle, off Friar Lane, Nottingham.
The small village of Dunham is an important crossing point of the river Trent on the A57 Worksop to Lincoln road.
The village of Egmanton is about 5 miles east of Ollerton on the A1 and used to be a place of pilgrimage in the middle ages for those visiting the Shrine of our Lady.
An attractive village on a hill above the Trent within spacious Georgian houses and brick cottages.
Continue to follow the Greet past a hardstanding area by a small concrete farm bridge on your right over the river - Do not cross, no right of way).
There is a legend that the ghostly sound of the village church bells can be heard at a certain spot every year on Christmas morning!
Burton Joyce is a linear village and sprawls along the busy Nottingham to Southwell Road.
Tuxford to Laxton service 33 operated by Travel Wright, one bus each way on Wednesday and Friday only.
Parts of the present church of St Mary date back to 12th century.
Bear slightly left to the other side of the field to cross to the edge of the golf course which adjoins the racecourse.
The pond in the field was known as Pickerell Pond or Play and the fishing rights were once owned by the Archbishop of York.
There is an attractive and impressive 14th century gatehouse of the former priory of Radford in the town.
The Generous Britton at Costock is a traditional old village pub with good value food.
The village is the birthplace of Lord Cromwell, treasurer of England at the time of Henry VI.
The Olde Red Lion at Wellow is just opposite the Wellow maypole, this 400 year old beamed country pub is full of charm and a lively character.
Apart from the church of St Mary Magdalene with its 14th century tower there is little of historic interest in the town.
A huge, ruined country mansion built in 1440 by Ralph, Lord Cromwell, Treasurer of England.
Cross over two stile through two small fields to join a metalled road.
Wolsthorpe's church (St James) is made of ironstone Fiskerton Fiskerton , Rolleston and Upton Walk - 6 or 2.5 Miles Click here for details Gibsmere Gibsmere (near Bleasby) and Hoveringham Walk - 5 Miles Click here for details Morton Morton, Fiskerton, Bleasby and River Trent Walk - 5 Miles Click here for details
Near to the village are the Cooling Towers of the local power station, cooled by the river Trent.
Much of the network has now been designated as a Local Nature Reserve due to its valuable and fascinating flora, fauna and geology.
From the car park walk along the river bank towards Fiskerton.
The Old Greyhound at Aslockton is a traditional, somewhat basic but friendly village pub.
The Stable Bar offers upto 6 Real Ales, Ciders and Perry's from local breweries and beyond and we guarantee you will not find a more traditional real ale house for miles!
Huthwaite Brierley Forest Park & Visitor Centre, off Skegby Road, Huthwaite, Sutton in Ashfielf Tel.
Separate no smoking restaurant called The Buttercross at the rear with good views serving good value home cooked foods.
The footpath runs alongside the hedge on the right of the field.
On the first Thursday in October, Nottingham holds its historic Goose Fair just one mile north of the city centre.
Near the Minster was villa in Roman times.
At the end of the field go through gate under the power lines and bear right towards a small wood then follow the field edge keeping to the right alongside the wood and then over a single style to a track up to Cotmoor.
Bagthorpe is one mile South of Selston and about 6 miles South East of Alfreton.
The hall at Staunton is thought to be Willingham in Sir Walter Scott's 'Heart of Midlothian'.
Pass into the next field and follow the stream.
Just outside Burton Joyce on the road to Lowdham is the lovely hamlet of Bulcote.
Pass the parish church of St. Swithan which dates back to 1335 and continue down the main street until you reach the COOP late shop.
Serves typical bar food daily although the range is small (small galley) it is reasonable value.The pub is situated just on the edge of Newark by the bridge near the castle.
Take the left turn towards Calverton.
The Fox and Crown at Old Basford is the home of the Alcazar Brewing Company.
Starting in early February for 5 weeks only, see the famous 5 acre snowdrop garden with fragrant flowering winter borders, ferns and hellebores and a woodlad walk carpeted with drifts of snowdrops.
There is a large car park at the rear and a children's play area.
The village has growm up around an ancient farming settlement and in the 19th century the framework knitting industry took over.
The house, gardens and Hardwick Hall Country Park are all open to the public.
In the corner of the field, you will have the choice of three footpaths, left, straight on or right.
Follow this footpath which keeps to the right hand side of the field.
This 17th century dining pub made of stone and is on Lincoln edge.
Selston is a large ex-colliery and industrialised village on the Alfreton to Nottingham road.
Continue to follow the river, you will see Shelford on the other side.
Advertising on behalf of all local Public Houses and CAMRA Branch beer festivals, in all areas.
The quiet, secluded village of Normanton-on-Trent is about 4 miles South East of Tuxford, just North of the A1.
The Black Horse at Caythorpe is a small, old beamed country pub with its own small brewery producing Dover Beck Bitter.
The Castle Barge is the only pub in our guide actually on the river!
After following the right hand field boundary, follow the farm track into the next field toward Glebe Farm.
The Rose and Crown at Cotgrave has a well deserved reputation for good food.
Fiskerton, Rolleston and Upton A six mile walk along the River Trent, open countryside and pretty Trentside villages.
There is a bus service (Barton), the Calverton Connection from Nottingham via Arnold and this runs every 15 minutes from Monday to Saturday and hourly on Sunday.
Go through a gate at the end of the field over a concrete bridge and then follow the footpath between gardens back to the main road at Westhorpe.
The footpath follows a stream for 1.5 kilometres where you take the footpath to the right past Woodborough Park and after one kilometre up to Fox Wood.
Black Swan High Street Edwinstowe NG21 9RQ Tel: 01636 822598 For Location Map click here The Black Swan is situated in the centre of Edwinstowe, traditional village pub with limited and basic accommodation.
Next to Trent Bridge Cricket ground and Nottingham Forest Football ground nearby.
Epperstone is a small attractive village, about 3 miles north of Lowdham and is built near the site of a 2/3rd century Roman villa.
For those wishing to start the walk at East Bridgford there is a Car Park in Main Street.
The attractive village of Morton is about one mile away from the river Trent some 3 miles from Southwell.
Continue to follow the river around a bend and cross over the wooden footbridge over the river and walk back along the other bank of the river towards Upton Mill.
Continue down the main street passing Hoveringham Hall on you right.
circular walks in the Sherwood Forest area including historic points of interest.
Follow this path back to the main road - now called Bonner Lane where you turn left.
The footpath initially goes down a driveway towards a detached house and then passes by the left hand side of the house down a narrow path between fences.
Three short 'easy going' walks through the local countryside exploring the physical and social history of the area, guided by local characters.
This part of the Trent is very popular with summer visitors and there are boat trips in the summer.
This large ruined house finished in 1591 was the family home of Bess of Hardwick, one of the most remarkable women of the Elizabethan Age.
The Lime Kiln at Cropwell Bishop is situated at a crossroads outside of the village on the Kinoulton Road.
On the north wall of the church of St Peter's can be seen Saxon or early Norman herringbone masonary.
At the end of the field pass through a gate and then down a pretty hedged green lane still with the stream on your right.South Field, one of the three large fields of the Laxton Open Field System is to your left.
Some 2 miles to the east there is the site of a Roman villa near the site of a Roman bridge found when Cromwell lock was built.
Note: This takes you up some 60 steps to the top to a view point over the Trent.
Bagthorpe The Dixies Arms near Underwood is an 18th century beamed village local with lots of character.
m take the small concrete footbridge across a small stream into the next field.
The footpath goes between the sailing lake and a hedge, after some 400m you will come to a wire fence.
York race course nearby.
The city center is also famous for its castle, built after the battle of Hastings by William the Conqueror, with its connections with Robin Hood.
The Hutt at Ravenshead is opposite Newstead Abbey and was built in 1400 as part of the Newstead estate, owned by the Byron family from 1540.
The church, parts of which dates back to the 14th century is at the heart of this sprawling village
The Trent Bridge Inn at West Bridgford, Nottingham is a busy town centre type pub.
There is a local legend that he used to leave the Fosse Way (on the other side of the Trent) and ford across the river, which in those day's would have been much slower and probably semi-marsh land..
Follow the Trent Valley Way until you reach a footbridge over a stream to the main Mansfield to Newark Road.Turn right towards Newark, taking great care on this busy road and after 100m take the footpath on the right.
Good local walks nearby.
West Stockwith The village of West Stockwith is about 10 miles east of the A1 and Bawtry on the Chesterfield Canal, on the west bank of the River Trent.
It has sash windows, overhanging eves and is protected by a high garden wall.
The village is set in an area where mining has been carried out since the Middle Ages, although the pits are now closed the area still retains a lot of tradditional Nottinghamshire mining character.
Follow this road through Bulcote Farm Buildings and then on to the pretty hamlet of Bulcote.
Mansfield is at the center of Robin Hood country and Sherwood Forest, although with the advent of coal mining, little of these connections can easily be seen in the town now.
There is a record of flood levels on stones in North Collingham churchyard
head towards the first pylon on the right of the racetrack at the other end of the field where there is low stile by the side of the Greet.
Hardwick Old Hall owned by English Heritage, now in ruins but predates Hardwick Hall is also well worth a visit.
As well as farming, up until recent years, local willows were used for basket making.
The wharf at Fiskerton, outside the Bromley Arms often has moored boats or barges tied up by the side.
At the Green Dragon Inn, turn right down Blind Lane and then turn right down Forest Road towards Ollerton.
Four Bells at Woodborough has been extensively modernised with good taste.
Go right over the cattle grid and then turn left down the marked footpath over a wooden style into a field.
The Red Hart at Misterton is a traditional pub with a friendly welcome, good food and liquid refreshments.
After approximately 400m the road turns into an unmade track where Carrington Lane turns off.
Three miles west of Farnsfield near the junction with the A614 is White Post Modern Farm Centre, Farnsfield NG22 8HL.
We're literally round the corner from Nottingham's underground history in the City of Caves, and the Galleries of Justice.
Follow the footpath which keeps close to the hedge on the left, through two fields and then up to Upton Chuch.
Itlies in a horseshoe formed by the Chesterfield Canal and the river Idle.
Continue down this long lane into Woodborough.
Halam is an attractive village on the Southwell to Mansfield road.
Bolsover Castle stands on the site of a medieval castle built shortly after the Norman Conquest by the Peveril family.
The large mound, which is some six m high and found outside the north-west entrance is known as Robin Hoods Pot.
The small village of Old Clipstone is about 3 miles East of Mansfield on the B6030.
The village, just off the Newark to Ollerton road is approached by secluded lanes has a fine 13th century church.
Displays of local interest including a model of a Roman Villa that once stood at Mansfield Woodhouse and watercolours by Buxton.
Nottingham City Maid Marion Way 2000, 32 miles - A circular walk around Nottinghma including 4 parks and historic points of interest.
This is a unique working mill which was once home to the 19th century mathematical genius and miller, George Green.
Gunthorpe and the River Trent This short, four mile walk is part along the Trent, passes several pubs including one frequented by Dick Turpin with its own microbrewery.
Rail - Nearest station Lowdham, 2 miles from the start of the walk.
The pub serves traditional pub food at very reasonable prices and good quality.For example gammon egg chips peas and salad cost only 3.75 their dearest meal only costs 6.95.
The Waterfront Inn at West Stockwith is a straightforward village pub next to the canal at West Stockwith.
The red brick Victorian church at Hoveringham was built in 1865 by Wm.
The village's uniqueness comes form the 60 ft high maypole in the center of the villages green.
Continue down Windmill Hill and the sunken lane into the delightful village of Oxton.
There is a blocked off tunnel, built by the monks, a mile long, which stretches from the Abbey to the pub.
Between the road and the Old Hall is a small field measuring exactly one furlong.
The footpath follows Robin Hood's Way up a track for about 400m then turns right down a footpath which passes in front of the trees of Loath Hill.
The second of the two lakes that you pass is the home of Nottimnghamshire County Sailing Club.
Of note is the Old Meeting House and parsonage at Stockwell Gate.
Although the manor dates back to Norman times, it is now dominated by modern housing estates.
During the first half of the 16th century, a manor house together with stables a brewhouse, dovecots, a garden and orchards were build on the site.
The Manor Arms at Elton is a good Pub on the busy Grantham to Bingham road .
after 50m you will reach a road with wide verges where you turn left toward Lambley.
Nottingham is also famous for its lace and the Lace Centre, near the castle and near the Trip to Jerusalem Inn is a good starting point to learn about its history and perhaps to buy a few samples!
From all directions narrow streets lined with Georgian houses lead here.
At the give way sign turn left towards Kneesall & Newark.Note:- the walk may be shortened by 1 kilometres at this point by turning left and following the road for 300m back to the start point.
There is a small parking area immediately to your right.
Although care should be taken when the river is high as part of the path could be impassable and at other times muddy, it provides many varied aspects throughout the walk.
The Bromley Arms at Fiskerton is a popular riverside pub with good atmoshere.
Continue in a straight line across a small grassed area and down Renals Way back to the car park.
Go around the left hand edge of the playing field to find a small wood bridge which you cross into a field.
The recent erection of a large sundial in the center of the town has given it a new focus and seems to have revitalized the shopping center although some of the peripheral shopping areas are still boarded up.
The path climbs up hill through the wood and when you reach the edge of the wood, follow the bridleway which follows the right hand field boundary for about 500m until you reach the end of the field when you take the track to the right.
At the junction of the Ilkeston Road / Canning Circus.
Bus - There are frequent bus services to East Bridgford and Gunthorpe from Nottingham and Bingham.
You will see metal gate and to the right of it take the stile crossing diagonally into the next field.
The Plough at Caunton is a typical Country pub serving good pub grub (steak and fresh fish cuisine a speciality) and good beer.
The Countrymann in at Kirkby in Ashfield is an upgraded old miners pub still retaining its traditional atmosphere, has a beer garden, home cooked food a speciality.
Dating back to the 15th century and built of locally quarried sandstone, the Hardwick Inn is pleasantly situated on the southgate of Hardwick Park, leading from the National Trust's Hardwick Hall.
At the T junction take the road that iws straight on but slightly to the right until you reach the main Nottingham to Southwell Road.
Some 15m after this second style cross over a style to the field on your right and now follow the left hand hedge.
The walk starts from the car park at the back of Laxton visitor centre.
Although it has a Nottingham Postcode and is in the Nottingham conurbation it is in Derbyshire.
Continue by the river, passing the Bromley Arms and follow the river round through a series of clapper gates until after about 2 kilometres you reach Hazelford lock and weir.
The Bridge Inn is close to the Dunham Bridge Toll bridge that crosses the Trent.
The nearby Gunthorpe lock and weir, a few hundred yards downstream from the village were built in the 1920's.
Public Transport -There is a frequent bus sevrvice to Upton from Southwell to Newark.
The fishing is still good to this day as can be verified by the many fisherman pegged out along the banks of the Trent.
After  kilometre cross over the cross roads and walk down the road to Bleasby and after  kilometre you reach the small church of St Mary.
The village is one mile from the '3 shires bush' where the three counties meet.
Established in 1n 1966 this area of islands and open water is a haven for wildlife.
Over recent years, the waterside by the old Nottingham canal has been redeveloped.
Caunton is just off the Newark to Ollerton road, some 6 miles North West of Newark.
The footpath passes across the field through the middle of the line of trees to a style on the other side.
Hazelford Ferry was a major crossing point of the Trent and Boat Lane is part of the paved way that runs through Bleasby mentioned in old texts that may date back to Roman times and before.
Next to the old wharf is the Bromley Arms.
The village is established in a valley with a stream called Cocker Beck running through.There are also several springs around the village.
This fort (Oldox Camp) is one of the largest remaining Iron Age hill forts in Nottinghamshire.
The Spread Eagle at Hockerton is a small roadside pub.
The Saracens Head at Southwell is a fine, old historic 16th century coaching Inn and Hotel in the centre of Southwell where Charles 1 spent his last hours of freedom before his final surrender.
The Anchor Hotel at Gunthorpe near Lowdham is a popular 17th century coaching inn by the river Trent now completely modernised.
Bleasby The Waggon and Horses at Bleasby is a small, old beamed country pub just off the main street of Bleasby.
Beeston was an industrial town with several 19th century mills, but has now been effectively absorbed into the Nottingham conurbation.
The Dragon is a city centre pub just opposite the library.
When the river is high some of the footpaths may be impassible and at other times may be muddy.
Inside are several William Morris windows in superb condition.
View towards Laxton Castle
This is a possible site for the vanished medieval village of Radley or Radleigh thought to be in the Cotmoor area.
After passing the French Horn inn, turn left down Carr Lane.
After the church follow the road around the left hand bend (Rolleston Manor on your left) and then around a right hand bend to a T junction where there is a telephone box.
The dual carriageway to the north and Doncaster (A6097) now cuts the old village to be found on the north west off from the modern development that is parallel to the dual carriageway.
At the bottom of this hill can be found the site of a 11th century Motte and Bailey castle.
This takes you straight up the hill between the golf links.
Pass through the main church gates and turn left down the road.
The village of Cottam is about 6 miles East of Retford dominated by the towers of the power station by the side of the river Trent.
Their name comes from nearby Shirebrook.
At the end of a short field turn right and continue to follow the bridleway along a track alongside the hedge to the left of the field.
The footpath runs by the side of the Greet through two fields.
Both churches date back to the 7th century and were rebuilt in Norman times.
In Roman times there was a paved way from Hazelford ferry, an ancient crossing point of the Trent, towards Bleasby railway station and it is though that the village lines this route.
Westhorpe Hall, not visible from the main road, was the home of the Clays who were the principal family in Westhorpe going back to 1392.
The walk starts and finishes through the sprawling village of Burton Joyce and takes in the almost unspoilt hamlet of Bulcote.
Bingham The Moot House at Bingham is a recently built pub situated in modern estate in Bingham with well kept Kimberley cask beers.
Follow the track to the road and turn right towards Morton.
Wysall The Plough at Wysall is a traditional, beamed 17th century village pub with bass and a choice of guest beers.
If you know of a good walk not included or one to include in our pub walks section, then please send the details to pubwalks@diningpubs.co.uk Click here for details South Wingfield Wingfield Manor - English Heritage.
The air of a previous Victorian industrial past is still dominant even with the new retail parks that have opened up on the ring road.
This runs along the track of an old railway line towards Farnsfield.
A previous royal visitor was Queen Boadicea who defeated the Roman Tenth Legion here in the 1st century AD!
Mapperley Plains is a commuting district on the northern edge of Nottingham.
Oxton is a large village on the A6097 some 5 miles north of Lowdham.
The magnificent Victorian church was built in 1869 by T C Hine with the base of the tower dating to the early 15th century.
The Neville Arms at Kinoulton serves bar food from rolls and sandwiches up.
Cross over the railway, go down Trent Lane and after 50m cross the tarmac road.
It houses an impressive collection of aircraft from Bi-planes to V-bomber Oxton Oxton and Robin Hood Hill Walk - 4 Miles Click here for details Southwell The Southwell Workhouse, - National Trust, Upton Road, Southwell, NG25 0PT opened March 2002.
The gardens and grounds are a good place to relax.
The area between is full of a wide variety of interesting stores and shops.
There is a train station about 1 mile out of Fiskerton on the road to Southwell Refreshments
Orston Orston is a small, attractive village with typical red brick cottages in the Vale of Belvoir situated between Bingham and Bottesford about one mile north of the A52.
The Horse and Groom at Nottingham is close to the site of the old Shipstone Brewery.
The square tower was rebuilt in 1778.
Continue under power lines into the next field.
Bleasby is some 4 miles south of Southwell and close to the River Trent.
Turning left and then following the footpath back to the car park by the Trent.
This used to be an important crossing point of the Trent, taking the main Nottingham to Newark road.
Southwell and Westhorpe A five mile walk through the pretty hamlet of Westhorpe on the edge of the historic town of Southwell.
As you continue along this bridleway you will see the remains of an old windmill to the left and the track widens to around 12 m between hawthorne hedges.
Note: The walk can be shortened by turning right and rejoining the walk at point After a slight left bend in the road take the footpath to the right and proceed over the rail crossing (taking care of trains; this is the Nottingham - Newark line) towards Rolleston water mill.
Gunthorpe This is one of the main crossing places of the river Trent in Nottinghamshire, it is now a popular boating and angling center.
The Broad Oak Inn at Strelley is a popular Cask Marque pub.
Start at the small parking area just off the A6097 dual carriageway on the road to Oxton just opposite the turn for Blidworth.
If you wish to visit the old settlement area on Robin Hood hill, take the footpath over the style.
Follow the left hand field boundary and when you reach the next field do not cross the field but take the path to initially to the left and at the end of the field just before the house, follow the field around to the right.
Further to the south, off SH 1, the Tree Trunk Gorge Road also provides access to some of these walks.
Lake Taupo is the biggest lake in New Zealand with beautiful hidden bays, sandy pumice beaches, waterfalls, bush clad hills and steep cliff faces.
Follow SH 1 north across the Control Gates, turn left onto Norman Smith Street, then left into Acacia Bay Road.
Tree Trunk Gorge Walking Track Time: 2 hours 30 minutes, return via same track Begins from Urchin Camping Area on Kaimanawa Road or from Tree Trunk Gorge Road where the track begins about 200m past the Tongariro River bridge on the left.
Control Gates Bridge to Spa Thermal Park From the Control Gates bridge follow the true right of the Waikato River.
Take a rest on alpine tussock and gravel plains, or tramp along meandering mountain streams.
Many of the tracks follow beautiful bush trails, catching glimpses of the lake, rivers and mountains.
Take the left hand track up Grinder (grade 4.
HELiPRO offer scenic flights over Lake Taupo, Huka Falls and surrounding thermal areas, fly south to Tongariro National Park or north for an exclusive landing on the rim of sacred...
Amazing landscape: You will walk through beautiful volcanic landscape with many rocks, hills and mountains.
Take a rest on alpine tussock and gravel plains, or tramp along meandering mountain streams.
Luxury accommodation located absolutely lake front with direct access to good swimming beach.
Toutouwai, the little bush robin, will follow your footsteps, ever watchful for insects disturbed by your passing.
From the North: To the north SH1 Access is off SH1 to the north on Horahora Road.
The beautiful Whanganui National Park is also close at hand, a diverse landscape of rivers, waterfalls, gorges abundant in native flora and fauna.
The trail will take in the best of this region for 100 kilometers - following the shores of the Waikato River, passing five hydro-lakes, interesting rock formations and geological delights, with riding through native bush, exotic forest, open reserve and grassed farmland.
The trails roll through farmland, reserves, and includes boardwalks through wetlands, and extended views of lakes and rivers.
Barbecue area, large new (2009) playground, auto laundry with dryer, fax facilities, ample off-street parking.
The main beach at Lake Taupo has easy off street parking, lots of picnic tables and is a magic place to watch the sunset.
Minutes to marina and world-renowned lake/river fishing.
When you enter Kinloch Village, keep a sharp eye out for the marker posts that lead you through a marina and past the local store.
Kaimanawa Road Forest Walk Time: 20 minutes, loop track Begins from the Urchin Camping Area 3km along Kaimanawa Road.
Weather on the Tongariro Alpine Crossing is subject to Alpine conditions and can be extreme, particularly on the 'Red Crater' ridge, including snow, ice, and often strong winds.
Looking south over Wharewaka Point Looking south over Wharewaka Point Looking south over Wharewaka Point
Cruise the lake path, ride the forest tracks or race the Cycle Challenge.
Guests have exclusive access to a magnificent native wilderness boasting native flora and fauna in a sub-alpine forest.
See farm livestock up close and bike through different terrain from grassy paddocks to native bush trails.
A luxury bed and breakfast retreat high above the bay, where the sun rises early on hills and farmland, spectacular gardens, private chalets, and peace.
Steep gradient in places Time: 4 - 5 hours return A true New Zealand bush track leads us up to suddenly emerge on the 'open tops', giving spectacular views of Lake Taupo to the north, and Tongariro National Park to the south.
Waipahihi Botanical Reserve Follow SH 1 south from Taupo and turn left onto Shepherd Road (second left after the Napier/SH 5 turn-off).
Watch a dry river gorge turn into a turbulent blue waterfall before your eyes.
If you'd rather bike than hike, head to the free Waikato River Trails, which are popular with mountain bikers.
The wines are a reflection of the area's unique terroir; high altitude, cool climate and free-draining with deep pumice and gravel soils laid down by volcanic eruptions.
Hire a mountain bike for the day and try out one of the local tracks including: * Tongariro River Track * Tree Trunk Gorge * Fischers Track * Moerangi Station * 42 Traverse  an all day climb through native bush combining heart-stopping downhills with tough climbs
Huka Falls to Aratiatia Rapids Walking Track Time: 4 hours return via the same track Follow SH 1 north from Taupo for about 1.6 km, turn right into Huka Falls Road and follow the signs to Huka Falls.
A Plus Lodge is in a quiet location in Turangi town area - Tongariro region, with large relaxing gardens, easy stroll away to shops, banks, bars, restaurants, bus station and information...
BOULEVARD WATERS is situated right on the shores of Lake Taupo.
Guided quad bike tours through native bush trails.
This area used to contain light geothermal activity until the construction of Wairakei Geothermal Power Station, approximately 2000 metres north of the field.
mins walk to Licorice cafe, lakefront and marina - 5 mins drive south to Turangi - 40mins drive south to Whakapapa ski field - 25mins drive north to central Lake Taupo Modern Lake & Mountain Escape is a fantastic Motuoapa holiday home designed for warmth and comfort.
Ride Time: Approx 1 hour return (many people use this track to ride out to Craters MTB park from town  this will take you about half an hour)
A tranquil bush setting, nestled amongst the Otaketake Stream Scenic Reserve.
I used to think Coaster was the coolest downhill track in Craters, but Mr has definitely surpassed it in my books.
The track starts at the end of Spa Rd on County Road at the Spa Thermal Park and heads North on easy single track for 4km to Huka Falls.
Qualmark endorsed Approaching Arthurs Pass Cathedral Cove, Coromandel Punakaiki Coast Coromandel Coast Crown Range, near Wanaka previous image pause play next image 1 of 5
Situated above State Highway 1, overlooking the lake and set amidst landscaped grounds, this venue offers comfortable accommodation, conference rooms and a popular restaurant and house bar.
A Plus Lodge is in a quiet location in Turangi town area - Tongariro region, with large relaxing gardens, easy stroll away to shops, banks, bars, restaurants, bus station and information...
Out on the Lake the most productive time to fish is still without doubt the first couple of hours of daylight.
ground floor units, centrally located, only 100m to lake and town centre.
Huka Falls Walkway Time: 2 hours return via the same track.
The trail is sheltered by pines as traverses lush farmland before crossing a stream in native bush and emerging at the Arapuni Dam.
A Plus Lodge is in a quiet location in Turangi town area - Tongariro region, with large relaxing gardens, easy stroll away to shops, banks, bars, restaurants, bus station and information centre.
With more than 100 pools separated by shallow rapids, Tongariro is a world-recognised fishing spot and it's mostly accessible by car or on foot.
The Pillars is set in 3 acres of parklike grounds with pond, gazebo, tennis court and swimming pool The Pillars enjoys all day sun,magic sunsets and rural, mountain and lake views.
BOULEVARD WATERS is situated right on the shores of Lake Taupo.
The volume of pure water flowing through the rock face is enough water to fill two Olympic sized swimming pools per second!
From the Lake Taupo Yacht Club follow the path beside Lake Terrace to the Taharepa Road Reserve where a paved track skirts the lake edge to Two Mile Bay then Wharewaka Point.
Surrounded by native bush high above Pukawa Bay, Oreti Village is perfect for your next get...
Little Acacia Bay Walking Track Starts about 1 km past Te Kopua Street, heading towards Acacia Bay.
The circular route offers the opportunity to experience the very best of the North Island in one compact area, following two well established touring routes: the Thermal Explorer Highway.
Omori Estate is nestled in the south-west corner of Lake Taupo, bordered by the Omori Stream.
Set in three acres of park like grounds, That Dam Lodge is situated up stream from the Whakamaru hydro-electric dam of Lake Whakamaru, on the scenic Waikato River, in the...
We guide clients on a range of stream, river and lake locations suited to all fly fishing tastes and skill levels.
Set amongst 9/12 acres of park like grounds Club Habitat offers a range of accommodation and facilities in the heart of Turangi.
Cross the bay and around Rangitira Point and float under the cliffs where the rock carvings drop straight into the deepest water.
Outdoors there are mountain bikes on hand, boat parking and direct access to a boat ramp and jetty.
The area boasts abundant trout fishing, bushwalks, mountain biking, running, canoeing, windsurfing, and one of the best water skiing lakes in New Zealand.
Kuratau River Wines Vineyard and Floating Rock Winery, on the southern shores of Lake Taupo
ground floor units, centrally located, only 100m to lake and town centre.
Fit folk can tramp the Tongariro Alpine Crossing, a full-day hike across a rather apocalyptic landscape past volcanoes, fumaroles, lava flows, craters and lakes.
Learn more about the region's flora and fauna, geothermal heritage and conservation priorities.
Designed in 1973 by Hawkes Bay architect, John Scott, Arcadia is situated right on Lake Taupo with easy access to boat ramp, jetty and a small beach.
At the western end of Kinloch Bay another single track leads to Kawakawa Bay, 14km away.
Shoreline Motel is a small family Motel with an absolute lake front position.We have our own boat ramp,sand beach and only a short walk to the famous Waitahanui river.
You can smell sulphur and you come across big and small lakes, trees and little streams of water.
Other popular hunting spots in the Taupo region include Kaimanawa Forest Park, Kaweka Ranges, Rangataua Forest, Erua Forest, Rangitaiki Conservation Area, and Lake Taupo Lakeshore Reserves.
Bridge Fishing Lodge is situated on the banks of the Tongariro River, and is ideally located for many summer and winter activities in the area.
Turn right off Tongariro Street into Spa Road at the northern end of Taupo, then left into County Avenue and drive into Spa Thermal Park.
Bridge Fishing Lodge is situated on the banks of the Tongariro River, and is ideally located for many summer and winter activities in the area.
Located in the tranquil thermal village of Tokaanu, the Tokaanu Thermal Pools offer hot mineral springs for you to indulge in a relaxing therapeutic soak in either a private mineral pool or heated freshwater outdoor pool.
Looking south over Wharewaka Point Looking south over Wharewaka Point Looking south over Wharewaka Point
Situated on Lake Terrace, we are moments away from great restaurants, the airport, local tourist attractions, thermal pools, adventure parks, and shopping.
Veer right and wander through native bush until the track climbs steeply to Acacia Bay Road.
The reserve (35 ha) was formed in 1966 to create a park of forest trees and plants and to be a refuge for birdlife.
Mountain to Sea Trail
Close to Lake Maraetai for fishing, boating and other water sports, Taupo, Rotorua, Tongariro National Park and Waitomo within easy driving...
Surrounded by native bush high above Pukawa Bay, Oreti Village is perfect for your next get...
Rotary Ride: Spa Thermal Park to Huka Falls Time: 2 hours return via the same track This is a shared bike track where walkers give way to bikes.
Millennium Hotel and Resort Manuels Taupo boasts absolute lake edge location presenting guests uninterrupted views of the magnificent lake and mountains from accommodation rooms, restaurants and bar areas.
Quest Taupo features full off street car parking with nine apartments offering underground parking.
They wind their way along a path that encompasses the magic and beauty of New Zealand native bush, exotic forest, historic landmarks, interesting rock formations and geological delights.
Craters of the Moon Walking Track Time: 1 hour loop track Follow SH 1 north from Taupo for approximately 6 km.
Millennium Hotel and Resort Manuels Taupo boasts absolute lake edge location presenting guests uninterrupted views of the magnificent lake and mountains from accommodation rooms, restaurants and bar areas.
It encompasses a massive expanse of native forest, shrublands and tussock grasslands, extending from Tongariro National Park in the west to the Kaweka Ranges in the east.
Sportsmans Lodge accommodation is situated right on the banks of the world famous trout fishing Tongariro River in Turangi, New Zealand  a fly fisherman's paradise!
Tongariro Summit (1967m) A relatively easy track, taking around 1  hours return from the main Tongariro Crossing track.
The Thermal Explorer Highway, one of New Zealand's classic touring routes, runs right through Taupo on its route from Auckland to Rotorua and Hawke's Bay.
It follows this world famous trout river past rolling farmland, beach forests and fern glades with spectacular views at almost every bend.
A Fish & Game licence covers all of New Zealand except the Great Lake Taupo fishery area (and an additional back-country licence is required for a few specified rivers).
The volume of pure water flowing through the rock face of the mighty Waikato River often approaches 220,000 litres per second; this is enough water to fill two Olympic sized swimming pools, per second!
Many visitors to Parklands Motorlodge take the opportunity to fish the river or the large lake it feeds, Lake Taupo.
hole mini golf course centrally located on the lakefront with wonderful scenic views.
On the slopes of Titiraupenga mountain are trees that stood before the first Maori waka reached our shores.
Cross the bay and around Rangitira Point and float under the cliffs where the rock carvings drop straight into the deepest water.
Shoreline Motel is a small family Motel with an absolute lake front position.We have our own boat ramp,sand beach and only a short walk to the famous Waitahanui river.
Situated on the shores of Lake Taupo this small boutique complex offers private quality self-contained, serviced lake edge accommodation with the latest facilities and technology and sprawling views across the lake and mountains.
Venture further to Kinloch or the western bays and land on the pumice shore for lunch.
The complex is set in beautiful grounds of flowers, lawn and native plants.
Cross the bay and around Rangitira Point and float under the cliffs where the rock carvings drop straight into the deepest water.
You can work some fly fishing into your Lake Taupo fishing holiday or catch a cruise boat to be taken out on the lake.
Track condition: Formed track, steep in some places.
The Thermal Explorer Highway is the Central North Island's scenic touring route, starting at Auckland and ending at Napier.
From there, a nice flowing 3 km decent on Mr & Mrs and Better than P. There are plenty of options depending on time, but this time I take Incline to pick up the classic Coaster track that leads you back down to the bottom of Tank stand.
Have a hot swim in the thermal waters of Lake Ohakuri, visit Orakei Korako travelling through the Tutukau Gorge, or travel up river as far as the Fletchers Reserve area.
The children's fishing pond was originally built to act as a settling pond from which water from all of the hatchery raceways and ponds flowed prior to being discharged back into the Waihukahuka Stream.
Secluded boutique accommodation with magnificent lake and mountain views from Acacia Bay, 5 minutes drive from town centre.
Designed in 1973 by Hawkes Bay architect, John Scott, Arcadia is situated right on Lake Taupo with easy access to boat ramp, jetty and a small beach.
Secluded boutique accommodation with magnificent lake and mountain views from Acacia Bay, 5 minutes drive from town centre.
Chris Jolly Outdoors, located at the Lake Taupo Boat Harbour, has a selection of well appointed launches that provide an excellent option to conference & meeting planners for water based...
Once at the summit of the trail, you head down the magnificent 10km purpose built track, covering a vertical drop of 2500 ft, surrounded by sheer beauty and epic views of the Tongariro National Park.
Bridge Fishing Lodge is situated on the banks of the Tongariro River, and is ideally located for many summer and winter activities in the area.
Surrounded by lakes, forest and farmland, Mangakino is a perfect...
This traditional New Zealand bush track climbs clear of the native beech forest to offer stunning views toward Lake Taupo and the Tongariro National Park.
So, when the tracks of other regions disappear under puddles & mud during the winter months, the groomed tracks around Taupo have only a dusting of pine needles as water quickly drains away.
Surrounded by native bush high above Pukawa Bay, Oreti Village is perfect for your next get away.
Bridge Fishing Lodge is situated on the banks of the Tongariro River, and is ideally located for many summer and winter activities in the area.
Accommodation Tongariro Lodge is situated on 22 acres of park like grounds on the banks of the world-renowned Tongariro River.
Set in a sunny north facing micro climate, the apartment is surrounded by fruit trees including mandarines, figs, tamarillos and olives.
Watch a dry river gorge turn into a turbulent blue waterfall before your eyes.
Set in three acres of park like grounds, That Dam Lodge is situated up stream from the Whakamaru hydro-electric dam of Lake Whakamaru, on the scenic Waikato River, in the heart of the North Island.
Return via the same track or arrange transport from Huka Falls carpark (across the bridge).
The Tongariro River has been in good shape this week with the river flow reaching 105 cumecs on Monday night and clearing reasonably quickly through the week.
Walking along the Huka Falla trail (front) Walking along the Huka Falla trail (front) Walking along the Huka Falla trail (front)
A side track from this point leads back to Acacia Bay Road.
A stream crossing near the confluence with the Tongariro River makes a good rest stop.
Spend an enjoyable 3 hours on Lake Taupo the largest Crater Lake in the world as you cruise through crystal clear waters fringed by native forest, massive rock formations and sandy bays while indulging in a spot of trout fishing.
Terrain will include farm land and pine forest.
You will pass by clouds of steam, rising where a hot stream joins the river, you will see the Huka Prawn Park, the Wairakei Geothermal Power Station and the Aratiatia Dam.
If you're lucky you might even spy the infamous Whio Whio (Blue Duck), the world's only ornithological white water rafter, nick-named the 'torrent duck' they just love floating down white water rapids and SO WILL YOU!!
You can even charter a boat, and head out on Lake Taupo for some great lake fishing.
Close to restaurants, AC Baths, golf courses, lake, shops and bus.
See the majestic Huka Falls with the aqua blue swirling Waikato river rush past majestic white cliffs and hot springs.
Scenic flights to Mt Ruapehu, Wairakei Park, Kaimanawa Ranges, Western Bays of Lake Taupo.
This is when the smelt (Retropina retropinna) migrate in huge shoals from the deep thermo clines of Lake Taupo into the shallow sandy bays to spawn.
The reserve next to Wharerakau leads to a lake edge bush walk tracing the bays and beaches of Acacia Bay.
Close to Lake Maraetai for fishing, boating and other water sports, Taupo, Rotorua, Tongariro National Park and Waitomo within easy driving...
The area has a very special terroir: lake edge, high altitude, cool climate conditions...
Mountain & Road Biking Explore some of the best mountain bike and road bike trails in the world.
Welcome to Brown Trout House, overlooking the Tongariro River in Turangi, halfway between Auckland and Wellington.
Walkers and mountain bikers can explore a series of free riverside trails along New Zealand's longest river - the mighty Waikato.
Tongariro River Estate is a boutique family-owned Vineyard and Restaurant situated in a unique location of exceptional natural beauty.
Welcome to Brown Trout House, overlooking the Tongariro River in Turangi, halfway between Auckland and Wellington.
Tramp along the ridge track for around 5 hours into Cascade Hut.
That Dam Lodge is a short drive to Whakamaru Water Ski Club and boat ramp.
The Great Lake Centre is conveniently located in the heart of Taupo's central business district, just walking distance from the towns many cafes, bars, accommodation and retail shops.
The track starts in Spa Park, off County Ave.
Take a 2 minute drive to beautiful Kinloch on the shores of Lake Taupo where we have a picturesque marina, golf course, beaches, children's playgrounds, cafe, restaurant, local store, kayaks for hire, bush walks, boat trips.
The Thermal Explorer Highway, one of New Zealand's classic touring routes, runs right through Taupo on its route from Auckland to Rotorua and Hawke's Bay.
For guided bike tours, try Tongariro River Rafting & Mountain Biking who can take you along trails that ride through ancient beech forests, alongside magnificent trout rivers and past huge volcanoes.
The trail includes the iconic Bridge to Nowhere and a half-hour jet boat ride on the Whanganui River.
At Tui Lodge in Turangi we offer a range of trout fishing trips, including raft, night, helicopter and summer fly fishing along the Tongariro River, as well as on the...
From the western end of Whakaipo Bay there is a signboard and the first of many marker posts that will lead you over a prominent spur to Kinloch Village.
Chris Jolly Outdoors, located at the Lake Taupo Boat Harbour, has a selection of well appointed launches that provide an excellent option to conference & meeting planners for water based...
When you're at the Southern End of the lake don't miss the historic village of Tokaanu, famous for its mineral hot pools and geothermal area.
River Restaurant - superb foods and wines in a vineyard setting.
Rainbow Motel is located in the historic thermal village of Tokaanu, the gateway to the National Park area of New Zealand's North Island.
Sportsmans Lodge accommodation is situated right on the banks of the world famous trout fishing Tongariro River in Turangi, New Zealand  a fly fisherman's paradise!
Kinloch is based on the Western Bays of Lake Taupo, only a 20 min drive to the tranquil Whangamata Bay.
You can also tackle these trails on foot, and enjoy a combination of native bush, historic landmarks, lake views, and more.
Taupo Hot Springs is set amongst some of Lake Taupos most stunning native bush scenery.
In other places, you will be reeled back up to the jump platform.
Rangatira Point Walking Track Time: 1.5 hours return Follow Acacia Bay Road past the boat ramp and on for another 2 km.
This scenic trip takes you through a pumice gorge with clear, slow moving waters.
Our new store, set on a 5,000sqm site with ample car parking at its door-step, offers customers an extensive selection of plants and trees.
The Great Lake Taupo region has some of the best mountain bike trails in the world with tracks ranging from gentle to heart pumping.
We fish a wider range of rivers, lakes, streams and creeks in the Taupo region and further afield, using helicopters and rafts if needed.
From here the track meanders through gullies, twists around trees, runs alongside open farm land, crosses two streams via bridges, passes through culverts and has great views of the Waikato River and open valleys all the way to the Huke Falls.
Many people are enjoying holidaying at Lake Maraetai on the Waikato River and we offer comfortable accommodation as well as the extra security of keeping your boat on a privately owned farm at night.
Designed in 1973 by Hawkes Bay architect, John Scott, Arcadia is situated right on Lake Taupo with easy access to boat ramp, jetty and a small beach.
From the fringes of the Rangipo Desert, walk the historic Coach Road to the crystal clear Ohinepango Springs, before stepping back in time to the earliest days of mountain recreation at the historic Waihohonu Hut.
Take in the fabulous views of secluded bays and the spectacular mountain peaks of the World Heritage Tongariro National Park.
Indian Delights Restaurant is open just in front of the lake, pointing the gorgeous view of snow clapped mountains and splendid lake.
times larger than their previous store; great parking right at the door; turn off into Spa Road at Taupo's State Highway 1 roundabout, then take the first right into Gascoigne Street.
From Snowsill you are heading back towards State Highway 1 on the Atiamuri Trail which has a lot of bush and forest along the trail.
Tokaanu Public Thermal Pools (private and public pools) are only 500m away.
See abundant bird life, pine forests, steaming volcanic riverbanks and trout feeding areas on your way to the surreal geothermal area of Orakei Korako ' described by the world-renowned Lonely Planet Guide as possibly the best thermal area left in New Zealand.
Enjoy a complimentary glass of New Zealand wine or beer while you cruise around the northern bays of Lake Taupo.
The rain last week and early this week has sent more fish up the major rivers and there are good numbers of browns to target.
You will need to be fit to complete the track as even in summer (when there is no snow and ice) there are some challenging steep parts.
Ika Lodge provides boutique B&B and self catering accommodation on the banks of the Tongariro River, a perfect base in peaceful garden setting for trout fishing, Tongariro Crossing, Mt Ruapehu...
The crystal clear Ohinepango Springs never fail to impress, while the historic hut reminds us of the rich history of our first National Park.
Waikato River Walking Track Time: 1 hour one way This walk begins at the Huka Falls carpark and ends at Otupo Flat.
Huka Prawn Park Riverside Restaurant is located on the banks of the Waikato River and caters for up to 250 people.
Just off SH 1 overlooking picturesque Lake Taupo, our two-storey home has ground-floor, self-contained accommodation with own entrance.
Venture further to Kinloch or the western bays and land on the pumice shore for lunch.
Experience our great park facilities, lovely gardens and park-like grounds, all set in 20 acres of country side, yet close to town, with great views of Mt Tauhara and opposite two golf courses (Tauhara & Centennial) at Taupo Golf Club.
Affordable alpine ambience at the gateway to the world renowned Tongariro National Park, home to the Southern Hemisphere's largest ski area.
We've definitely got the best of both worlds with the river and lake on our doorstep in summer and Whakapapa Ski Area nearby for winter.
SH5, 27kms South of Rotorua, Rotorua to Taupo Highway, Rotorua View video from $32.50 (NZD)
The River Lodge is a unique conference venue and wedding venue located midway between Rotorua and Lake Taupo in the scenic heart of New Zealand.
Lake Taupo is a fresh water lake and is the main feature of the area, with many recreational opportunities, including fishing, either by boat or river excursions, swimming, water skiing, float plane and helicopter rides.
It's a well-known walk in the North Island of New Zealand but you may have some doubts because you've heard about the difficulty of the track or the time it takes to complete the hike.
See the majestic Huka Falls with the aqua blue swirling Waikato river rush past majestic white cliffs and hot springs.
The Great Lake Centre is conveniently located in the heart of Taupo's central business district, just walking distance from the towns many cafes, bars, accommodation and retail shops.
Again there are basic toilet facilities at Dunham Point Reserve and breathtaking landscape panoramas of Lake Whakamaru.
From the Huka Falls you can cross over the river and head back to Taupo along the 2.5 kilometer Redwood Track which is also a gentle single track back to town on Huka Falls Rd.
Start this track from the swing bridge in Arapuni Village then turn left and follow the gorge upstream where the Waikato River originally flowed. The views of the extinct Maungatautari volcanic cone are great.
The sound of bird song drifts through the air while water, inspired by the geothermal area of Orakei Korako, flows down the silica terraces, from one geothermal pool to another.
State Highway 1 is the country's main trunk line for road travel, connecting Auckland to Wellington.
Whakapapa Village, on the slopes of Mt Ruapehu, is the centre of activity, both summer and winter, when visiting the World Heritage Tongariro National Park.
This stunning alpine wonderland is one of only a handful of sites throughout the world to be given dual natural and cultural World Heritage status by UNESCO.
It's well marked along the way with dark green posts in the area surrounding most major intersections.
This beautiful lake beneath the mountains is worth a boating adventure or scenic cruise.
From here there is a short steep climb up to a road then the track drops again to the river and ambles along through a variety of terrain and vegetation.
Situated in the heart of Taupo, our museum and art gallery offers visitors an opportunity to celebrate both art and history in one ideal location.
Urchin Camp - Pillars of Hercules Walking Track Time: 1 hour, return via same track or along the road Begins from the Urchin Camping Area 3km along Kaimanawa Road or from the Pillars of Hercules carpark.
Karetoto Road, off Huka Falls Road, Wairakei Park, Taupo View video
Located above the Kuratau River which flows into Lake Taupo, with its own unique soil and climatic characteristics, the Kuratau River Wines vineyard was planted with Pinot Gris and Pinot...
In this forest, you can both stand on the geographic center of New Zealand's North Island, as well as visit the country's largest totara tree.
My favourite way to fish on the lake at the present is to fly fish at the Tongariro River Delta.
Float past ancient beech forests, through gorges, past limestone and volcanic cliffs and then race down 50m 'roller coaster' rapids at exhilarating speeds.
When Huka Falls Rd meets State Highway 1 there is a cycleway along the edge of the highway to avoid the traffic.
Enjoying Lake Taupo beach in summer
At the northern end of the lake we have the Mangakino Golf Club, a flat undulating 9 Hole easy walking course with picturesque views of Lake Maraetai and the surrounding forests.
The Hinemaiaia saw a flood of anglers descend on the river banks this week as most rivers were unfishable for a couple of days.
There are three lovely beginner trails along both sides of the Waikato River - the Rotary Ride, Redwoods Track and the Aratiatia Dam Ride.
We offer a great place to stay on the lake front of Lake Taupo, New Zealand.
Cycle route directions There are two sweet slices of single track ready-to-ride on the Great Lake Trail right now, the W2K Track and Kawakawa Bay.
Return via the same track or arrange transport back to town.
Waimarama is situated overlooking the Major Jones and Breakfast fishing pools on the Tongariro River and guests seeking fine trout fishing can be on these magical reaches of the river within minutes of arrival.
This scenic trip takes you through a pumice gorge with clear, slow moving waters.
Along the highway you'll get to see captivating landscapes, geothermal activity, crystal clear lakes and streams, wineries.
The Waikato Region is rural New Zealand's heartland, and the River Trails wrap around a path that takes in the beauty of the land, historic landmarks, and fascinating volcanic rock formations.
There will be a special focus on the southern end of the Lake, featuring natural gems like the World Heritage Listed Tongariro National Park, the trout fishing and the excellent mountain biking trails.
Wairakei Forest or Craters of the Moon is a popular biking area that contains a series of purpose-built windy trails for all levels of ability through mostly pine forest.
The 42 Traverse covers an extremely remote sub-alpine part of New Zealand where the weather can change fast.
L'Arte is a unique mosaic cafe surrounded by an awesome mosaic garden oasis.
It's on the lake-side of the main highway, a short drive to the boat ramps at Two Mile Bay and Wharewaka.
Getting there Primary access to the trail will be by road and/or water taxi.
The spiritual and cultural beauty of these magnificent carvings towers above the deep waters of the Great Lake.
From the carpark at the bottom of County Ave, ride down the grassy gully to your right (tempting as it might be, don't follow the tourists in their swim gear on the main path down to the river.
Throw in a flat white before the ride, 40 km of dedicated one way MTB trails winding its way through forests & ferns, and a hot soak in a thermal pool after, mountain biking in Taupo seems rather civilized.
At the back of the viewing area the track climbs onto the cliff tops with magnificent views of the river.
Visit this sheltered harbour and marina and you know immediately that this is the lake edge centre for tourism.
Extensive and uninterrupted views of Tongariro National Park (The Mountains), Rangatira Point (Hallowed trout fishing waters) and across the bay to Taupo Township.
The Tongariro Alpine Crossing is a 19.4 km day hike in Tongariro National Park on New Zealand's North Island.
The most direct access to Omaru Hut is from Clements Mill Rd via the old Te Iringa Hut site.
Ngauruhoe Summit (2287m) The 2500 year old near perfect cone of Mount Ngauruhoe attracts many visitors to its summit.
The volcanic heritage and diverse geothermal landscape of Great Lake Taupo are the ideal back-drop to offer just this inspiration.
The walk begins at the reserve and follows a formed track on a terrace above the lake edge for 1 km, then passes through several paddocks to the Five Mile Bay Lakefront Reserve.
The world famous Milford Track, three nights and four days crossing the Southern Alps at the Mckinnon Pass and finishing at Milford Sound.
Return journey to Christchurch along the stunning Great Alpine Highway.
Start from: Nelson/Motueka Length: 37km Duration: 3 days Grade:5/10 Options:Guided/Independent Highlights:Walking barefoot on the golden sand
We think this is the best high alpine track in New Zealand.
Our day walk in Arthurs Pass National Park has so much variety in a short distance: The rainforest alive with ferns & mosses, an alpine wetland, the crystal clear water of the moutain stream, sub alpine flora and views right up to the glacier and alpine zone.
One of the highlights of walking in the New Zealand high country is the alpine flowers and Arthurs Pass is well known as a great spot for flowers, with lots of people making the day trip from Christchurch to see them.
Mountain views walking in the Bealey valley
Breathtaking views of the Southern Alps and upper Waimakariri Valley as you reach the National Park to travel along the edge of the native forest into Arthur's Pass station.
The lush bush and golden sand beaches you see in tourist brochures are right here in the Abel Tasman.
He will meet you in Arthur's Pass again to lead you on your 3-4 hour hike up the amazing Bealey Valley in Arthur's Pass National Park.
Spring is here in the Southern Alps now, which means changable weather but some great views of the snowy mountains and plenty of snow still on the ground on our walking track.
Fantastic weather at the moment on our day tours from Christchurch to Arthur's Pass and now have the first of the alpine flowers in bloom!
Walk from Fiordland national park over the Harris Saddle into Mount Aspiring NP.
Start from: Mount Cook Village Duration: 1/2 to 1 day Grade: Various Options: Guided/Independent Highlights: Close up views of glaciers, year round snow and the highest peaks in NZ
The track is well formed and easy to follow but there are some places where you must walk on rocks, tree roots or through running water.
Access to the village is by road and from here you just walk right out into the mountains, there are not many places in the world that offer such easy access to a high alpine environment.
Walking in Arthurs Pass
We are enjoying some fantastic weather at the moment on our day tours from Christchurch to Arthur's Pass and now have the first of the alpine flowers in bloom!
Post earthquake letter from walkers on our Arthurs Pass hiking tour from Christchurch
No other Christchurch day tours offer you all this: The TranzAlpine train, a guided walk in Arthurs Pass National Park and scenic drive back along the Great Alpine Highway.
Start from: Te Anau/Queenstown Length: 39km Duration: 3 days Grade: 6/10 Options: Guided/Independent Highlights: Views from the Hollyford Face, climbing Conical Hill
Mount Cook village, skifields around the Southern Lakes (even in summer), higher parts of the Milford Road.
After a quick stop in Springfield, it's into the Waimakariri Gorge traveling through tunnels and over viaducts as you climb into the alps.
On our guided walk in Arthurs Pass we walk pretty close to the Bealey River, which is a beautiful high country river flowing down from a glacier 2000m up the mountain.
At this time of year there is still quite a bit of snow around, even close to the walking track, so we can get some great photos with snowy mountains and flowers in full bloom.
Walking in autumn sunshine in Arthurs Pass
Arthurs Pass is right on the main divide of the Southern Alps, meaning we can get any kind of weather at any time of year.
View from the alpine wetland
The weather forecast for Arthur's Pass was not that great but we got lucky with a window of blue sky when we started our walk.
We often see Kea in Arthurs Pass village, the Otira lookout and if we are lucky, on our walk up the Bealey Valley.
Despite recent events in the city it is good to see that some people are continuing their travel plans and visiting Christchurch as part of their New Zealand holiday.
Just one minute off the main road and you are in New Zealand native beech forest, real 'Lord of the Rings' country.
The city centre is still off limits and will be for some time.
Up the top of the valley she emerged from the river with a big smile!
If weather or any other conditions make the walking track or road unsafe we reserve the right to offer an alternative route.
Travel on the TranzAlpine from Christchurch across the Canterbury Plains for your first views of the Southern Alps.
Beautiful tropical weather, flora and fauna and waterfalls that extend for kilometers - what's not to love?
The path to the left leads up to the crater lake (with more Moais scattered around the lake!
The Reserva Nacional Laguna Torca (Torca Lagoon National Park) which is administrated by CONAF (the Government's National Forest Corporation), encompasses 604 hectares of beautifuls landscape.
Visit the crater of the Rano Kau Volcano ' Easter Island 40.
The Park is made up of 3 areas: * Bosque de Llico (Llico Forest) * Laguna Torca (Torca Lagoon) and * Isla Cerrillos (Cerrillos Island)
If you like astronomy- try and do the public tour (once a month) at the European Southern Observatory on Cerro Paranal ( four 8.4 m telescopes).
The Run The run started at Parque Uruguay just outside the Salvador Metro Station, went down to Plaza Italia, crossed the Pio Nono bridge, then went up Avda Santa Maria to Puente Suecia (bridge).
Forest Fire Cloud covering the sun while people sandboard down some dunes
If you look careful, you will already see the streets lined with parked cars and people walking towards the main square (Plaza Sotomayor).
The competition was to retrieve the first egg of a specific bird, nesting on the rocks on an island just off Orongo called Rotu Nui.
We made our way down to the river, where we enjoyed a high-speed boat ride into the falls.
This is why some people get their Permiso in small towns that need the money, especially beachside towns or wherever people go on holiday.
I had to go to Colombia for work though was lucky enough to get a few days off in its capital city and surrounding areas.
Paige Brown: Earthquake Update Was on a intercity bus at the time, 50 miles from the epicenter.
A stage is set up at Plaza Sotomayor, the main square near the wharf, with live bands that last until 8 in the morning.
The real and original Chumbeque came from Piura area (northern city from Peru).
We reached the first camp, with hammocks slung under shelters.
Some people get this in a small city council at the beach since the money goes to helping the community and at the same time you may get a local parking sticker which lets you as a 'local' park in certain restricted areas;
It is reserve where you can find more then 100 species of birds, including ducks, eagles and black-neck swans, as well as many types of plantlife.
Welcome to South America ME Our mission is to create an up-to-date guide to the different countries of South America based on real experiences of those how have lived or travelled through this fascinating continent and have fun at the same time.
Like any big city, Santiago is criss-crossed by a mass of roads, with buildings crammed into every block.
I had to go to Colombia for work though was lucky enough to get a few days off in its capital city and surrounding areas.
You have to cope with stifling heat (think 30 degrees and more), humidity, constant attacks from mosquitoes and other bugs, heavy rain (especially in the 'winter' season) and a trail that winds over steep hills, crosses rivers more than a dozen a times, and then climbs more than a thousand steps to the Lost City.
The next day was spent recovering except for the hardy ones who spent more time cooling off near the waterfalls.
The Andes mountains covered in snow after the rain
by Adam Ray on June 18, 2010  0 comments A view from the statue at the top of Cerro San Cristobal overlooking the city of Santiago, Chile.
In his search he arrived at Pica y Matilla where he fell in love with Petronila Bustillos Sandoval, a well known sweet maker in the zone.
Parque Arauco is a large shopping mall in Las Condes (Santiago).
And isn't Santiago the place where foreign firms choose to base themselves, because it works better than comparative major cities in South America?
Go to many shops downtown Santiago (here we are not talking about malls, department stores or shops in the nicer suburbs closer to the mountains) and you will find this happens.
Another alternative in Santiago is the famous La Vega which is across the river from the Mercado Central (Central Market) at the Cal y Canto Metro Station.
The only decent vegetarian cafe that immediately comes to mind (in this city of 6 million people) is El Huerto which is at Orrego Luco 54, Providencia, Santiago (Metro Pedro de Valdivia) www.elhuerto.cl.
Plenty of tourists know what a great place it is to visit, with its well-preserved historic centre, great museums, archaeological sites, and fantastic restaurants.
For those not so keen on traipsing up hills, there are more than a dozen cable cars to save you the effort.
Despite the smog, Santiago is a great place to be in winter due to its close proximity to ski fields.
Visit La Campana Park near Olmue ' 5th Region 39.
Perito Moreno Glacier Near El Calafate, Argentina.
Christopher Street Day Parade at Siegessule - Berlin, Germany
Kalaw to Inle Lake, Burma (Myanmar): Three days through the villages and hills of Shan State, watching village children ride water buffalo and listening to young novice monks chant at dawn.
Windmill Near Lassithi Plateau - Crete, Greece
Approaching the Salt Flats (Salinas Grandes) in Northwestern Argentina
Perito Moreno Glacier Near El Calafate in Fall Colors - Argentina
Deep gorges, emerging mountain passes and the thick grey rapids of the Enguri River defined an increasingly severe alpine landscape.
Mines at Cerro Rico Mountain - Potosi, Bolivia
The Pamirs The Pamir Mountain region - from southern Kyrgyzstan to eastern Tajikistan (Wakhan Valley) features truly spectacular mountain landscapes.
The road went from bad to worse as we left the main Pamir Highway.
VARIETY: I'd guess that South and Central America have more consistent variety in terrain, overall, than Africa and the Middle East.
Photo Stream DSC_6722 Egyptian Pyramids around Cairo Desert Scapes at the Red Pyramid - Dahshur, Egypt Photo Tags Giza pyramids pyramid camel ride Al Jizah
Bicycle Ride through Coba Ruins - Yucatan, Mexico
Venetian Windmills near Lassithi Plateau - Crete
Venetian Windmills Near Lassithi, Crete
Quito's Cathedral on Plaza Grande
Even in winter, Sapa's landscape dazzles with its rolling hills and terraced rice fields.
City Hall and High Court stand prominently on the streets near Mahabandoola Park and Sule Paya in downtown Rangoon, Burma (Yangon, Myanmar).
Saturnia Hot Springs in the Maremma Area of Tuscany
Like many of its neighbors in Southeast Asia, Malaysia is home to the holy trinity of street food enjoyment: availability, quality and price.
Our motorbike drivers pointed out details we might normally miss - long beans growing on the left, pineapples on the right, crop of dry rice, chili bush ahead, wedding ceremony, children returning from school, new Buddhist temple.
Fortunately, you don't have to go terribly deep to see lots of colorful coral, Lion Fish, Parrot Fish, Puffer Fish and more.
Bicycle Journeys Through Coba Ruins - Yucatan, Mexico
Tower at the Summer Palace, Summer Palace - Beijing, China
Two women from the village of Deep Colony in northern West Bengal (India) carefully weed their seedlings in their community nursery.
Fisheye View of Salt Water Pools at the Salinas Grandes - Argentina
Leon, Nicaragua: Biggest Cathedral in Central America
In this village, life proceeded glacially; the poinsetta bushes moved faster than the cows crossing the highway.
A tiny little shack stands in the middle of Big Almaty Lake in Kazakhstan's Tian Shan mountains.
Zodiac Ride Around a Massive Glacier - Antarctica
Wrecked American Barge on Las Bachas Beach - Galapagos Islands
Vertical Lines at Perito Moreno Glacier - El Calafate, Argentina
Taking a sunset boat ride along the Ganges River in Varanasi, India.
Florida Citrus at Jacksonville Market, Florida
Taken in Copan Ruinas, Honduras.
Back Above Ground - Potosi Mines, Bolivia
Not So Lucky - Salinas Grandes in Northwestern Argentina
View of Hot Spring Waterfall at Ma'in, Jordan
Eiffel Tower at Night - Paris, France
Next up, Scotland?
Cerro Rico Looms Over Potosi, Bolivia
Mountain Peaks at Jungfraujoch, Switzerland
Golden Landscape in Tuscany, Italy
A Camel Ride Through Wadi Rum Desert, Jordan
Best Monastery: Sapara near Akhaltsikhe, Georgia Nestled in a beautiful forest and mountain setting, monastic life doesn't seem to get any more peaceful than Sapara.
Twilight quickly yields to night at Petronas Twin Towers in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia's capital city.
A winter wind and dust storm began as we left the Dead Sea towards Bethany Beyond the Jordan.
Petra, Jordan A Camel In Front of the Royal Tombs at Petra - Jordan Camel Love - Petra, Jordan Donkey Rides at the Royal Tombs - Petra, Jordan The Royal Tombs at Petra, Jordan sort | size Interesting | Date Small | Medium Related photo tags:
A jacaranda tree in blossom in front of ruins of San Augustin Church in Antigua, Guatemala.
A large open rectangular area in the middle of the house, ringed by an elevated platform, serves as the main common area where visitors sit, eat and sleep.
Sailboats at the Heraklion Harbor - Crete, Greece
What was once a thriving oasis and stopover area for migratory birds and other wildlife was drained of its water to supply Amman and other cities.
A tour bus is parked in the lot and a sea of white faces mill inside the bar.
Bibi Fatima Springs: After days without bathing water, the picturesque hot springs above Yamchun Fort are a welcome respite.
Allah-Allah Tower in Ardabil, Iran
It still at high elevation, but the landscape takes on rolling hills.
Bowl of rice in hand, choose four vegetable dishes for 5 Y ($0.75) at a roadside food stand in the Xishuangbanna region of China's Yunnan province.
Prague Castle from Vltava River - Prague, Czech Republic
Looking Into Samaria Gorge - Crete
Prague Castle from Petrin Orchards - Czech Republic
Kilimanjaro and Mawenzi Peaks - Tanzania Candle Lit Walking Path to Petra - Jordan Walking Along Isla del Sol - Lake Titicaca, Bolivia Zeus Cave Walking Path - Crete, Greece sort | size Interesting | Date Small | Medium Related photo tags:
Treeline Street in Barrio Norte, Buenos Aires, Argentina
Market in Copan Ruinas, Honduras
A boat ride along the Ganges River at dusk in Varanasi, India.
Mendoza Vineyards Below the Andes - Mendoza, Argentina
Relax in hot, sulfuric water in a forest setting at the Balneario Aguas Termales (hot springs) four kilometers outside of town.
More reading: Boat Ride from Luang Prabang to Nong Khiaw Villages around Nong Khiaw
At the Mekong Delta's bazaar on water, transactions take place at every turn and boats jostle for the next deal.
Glacier at Jungfraujoch, Switzerland
Grape Harvest Time in the Wine Region near Wurzburg
Manzhyly, Southern shore of Lake Issyk-Kul Lake Issyk Kul Part of our perfect day; a beautiful setting with red rocks on one side, deep blue water on the other, and a comfortable bed and breakfast yurt-stay.
Maremma Landscape with Manciano on the Hill - Tuscany, Italy
From the side of a building on Kullassepa Street near Tallinn's Town Hall Square (Raekoja Plats).
Transportation: - Public buses: Amman has a northern and southern bus station with buses headed to most places you'll want to go throughout Jordan.
Cathedral on Plaza Grande - Quito, Ecuador
Inside St. Augustine's Cathedral - Miami, Florida
A classic brick building takes up almost an entire city block in Budapest, Hungary.
Falls Above the Kuranda Railway - Cairns, Australia
Our guide, Maha, is a tiny spec against the Red Pyramid outside of Cairo, Egypt.
Woodborough-without-Calverton.
Collyer, George, in Derby Mills, near Melbourne
Throughout the area 'Wood' occurs several times in place names: Ploughman's Wood, Wood Barn Farm, Fox Wood and, Woodborough itself.
Edward married and held some position on Lord Scarsdale's estate, Kedleston Hall, near Derby.
Woodborough is a parish and large straggling village 6  miles north north-east of Nottingham, 3 miles north-west from Lowdham station and 141 miles from London, in the Southern Division of the County Wapentake of Thurgarton, Basford Union, Nottingham County Court district, Archdeaconry of Nottingham, rural deanery of Southwell, and diocese of Lincoln.
Left: Main Street - Centre: Foxwood Lane - Right: Roe Hill
Under plans, a 2m high fence would have been put up to divide the school playing fields from Parish Council land and the Parish Hall.
Woodborough is a parish and large straggling village, 8 miles north-north-east from Nottingham, 3 miles north-west from Lowdham station, and 141 from London, in the Hundred of Thurgarton, Basford Union, South Notts, diocese of Lincoln.
It may be found on park lakes, city canals and rural backwaters including ditches.
It is found in many habitats including woodland, parkland, farmland, and urban areas.
John Ingall Werg came from Hexgrave.
Rising from the Dover Beck to 470 ft at Dorket Head and surrounded by unspoilt scenery, the long village Main Street extends along the valley floor and has the Woodborough Beck running through it.
Woodborough is a parish and large straggling village, in a narrow dale near the Dover Beck, 8 miles north east by north of Nottingham.
John Wood - One other parcel of wood ground next thereunto adjoining, called Greate Hunna Wood, and four closes of pasture & arable nearunto the said wood adjoining, in the occupation of John Wood, freeholder 40a 2r 38p.
Christopher Strelley - One close adjoining - 6 acres 1138 Nicholas Leyes - One other little close adjoining - 1 rude 1139 Southwell Church - One other close adjoining -1 acre 1140 Common - Arable field adjoining called East Field - ?
Her grave is at Lockington, a little village near Castle Donington.
Farmers must sow winter wheat in their strips in one field, other cereal crops in the second field, and leave the third field fallow.
The brickyard is noted as 'Brick Kiln', and the position of Bank Hill cottage being just north-east on the opposite side of Bank Hill.
Woodborough is a parish and large straggling village, in a narrow dell near the Dover Beck, eight miles N.E.N. of Nottingham.
Woodborough is a parish and large straggling village, 8 miles north-north-east from Nottingham, 3 miles north-west from Lowdham station on the Midland Railway.
Woodborough is a parish and large straggling village, in a narrow dell near the Dover Beck, 6  miles north-east from Nottingham, 3  miles north-west from Lowdham station, and 141 from London, in the Newark parliamentary division, that of Calverton for the County Council hundred of Thurgarton, Basford union, Nottingham County Court district, rural deanery of Gedling, and diocese of Southwell.
Woodborough is a parish and large straggling village, 3 miles north-west from Lowdham station on the Nottingham and Lincoln line of the Midland Railway and 8 north-north-east from Nottingham, in the Rushcliffe division of the county, Wapentake of Thurgarton.
The Woodborough Manors may have extended into Epperstone, as the Epperstone Manors did into Woodborough.
Woodborough is a parish and large straggling village, in a narrow dell, near the Dover Beck, 8 miles N.E. from Nottingham, 3 N.W. from Lowdham Station, in the southern division of the County, Hundred of Thurgarton, Basford Union, Nottingham County Court District, and rural deanery of Southwell.
John Wood - One other wood next to the same adjoining, called Sowe Wood, John Wood freeholder 51a 3r 16p.
Woodborough is a parish and large straggling village, in a narrow dell, near the Dover Beck, 6  miles north east from Nottingham, 3 north west from Lowdham station, and 141 from London, in south Notts, hundred of Thurgarton, Basford Union, Nottingham County Court district, and rural deanery of Southwell.
In 1736 our present School was founded by Rev'd Montague Wood, Rector of St Michael's, London, who bequeathed certain lands in Woodborough, Blidworth and Stapleford.
He had a watermill on the Dover-Beck.
A house and school-room and garden at Woodborough containing about a rood, open to other land rented by the Schoolmaster, the boundary being marked by stones.
He died in 1850, without issue, and left the estates at Bunny away from the family.
Local watercourses are the Woodborough Beck, which runs mostly alongside Main Street through the village of Woodborough rising from ground above Westfield Lane, then joined by the Sycke Dyke near the Church and then flowing through fields between Shelt Hill and Lowdham Lane to join the Dover Beck below the Woodborough Mill.
Wind pump built to supply water to Woodborough Hall and other properties.
It is a small country parish 8 miles north east of Nottingham and covers an area of 2023 acres, about 3 square miles.
In this immediate neighbourhood Newstead Abbey was given to Sir John Byron, Thurgarton Priory to William Cowper, the King's cook, and Shelford Priory to Michael Stanhope.
I continued to work at Southwell until the autumn of the year 1858 then work became slack, I went home did various jobs during the winter returning to Southwell again the following spring.
These arms form part of a shield on a wall monument to Richard Parkyns who died in 1603 in Bunny Church (Godfrey, 'Parish churches of Notts', hundred of Rushcliffe).
At The Nag's Head, Main Street divides into Shelt Hill and Lowdham Lane.
The Dover Beck then continues through the villages of Lowdham and Hoveringham to join the River Trent.
Woodborough has four bordering parishes, of the four, Calverton is by far the largest with 3424 acres (5 & 1/3 square miles).
commute to Nottingham: 9% work in other parishes, mostly in the coal mine in Calverton: and 5% work in the shops of the Parish.
Left, Nina's cottage in Westfields circa 1950, and Nina outside her home in Church Walk in 1930.
The free-holders in Woodborough in the year 1612, were Christopher Strelley, John Wood of Lambley, John Crofts of Oxton, William Owldney, John Clark, senior, Thomas Wyer, Henry Alvie, Nicolas Lees, etc.
Woodborough is a long and winding village, its shape determined by the trend of a narrow, fertile valley, through which flows a tiny brook, flanked on either side by tree-clad hills.
She gave the poor-houses and gardens, and the Foxwood gardens, and also a field on the Moor.
The nearest police are in Calverton although the County Headquarters is in Epperstone only 1  miles away.
Calverton crack pancheons Woodborough merry bells Oxton ding dongs Lowdham egg shells Woodborough Hall was built in the 17th century on the site of one of the former manors by Philip Lacock.
Above right: The school as viewed from the Village Hall car park, the railings are those in place to mark the boundary of the land belonging to the Village Hall, the running track area is the grassed area between the railings and the yellow truck.
This will circle the school site including the school playing field next to the reception class.
History: The first settlement in the parish was by the Romans during their occupation of Britain.
One of the legends concerning this bell is as follows: Iljun, a famous monk and metal smith, was ordered by the King to cast the bell but had failed repeatedly in spite of every effort, even with wise advice from all over the county.
At the west end is a ridge that separates the village from Calverton, its neighbour to the north, while on the other side, more hills bar the way to Lambley.
Trees - Woodborough was at one time part of Sherwood Forest being situated just inside its southern boundary.
The distances used from Woodborough to places shown on the Ordnance Survey map sheet number 112 were the measured straight line distances from church to church, and for other places where the approximate straight line distances from a road atlas.
Manor Farm moves from Main Street to Lingwood Lane.
When the first Woodborough School was built between 1734 and 1736 an account dated 8th November 1735 shows that the bricks used in building it came from the brickyard of John Harvey of Calverton.
The nearest Roman Catholic Church is in Calverton.
About 20 men were employed at the works and bricks were supplied to Lambley as well as Woodborough.
Neither the brickyard on Bank Hill nor Bank Hill cottage appear on the map detailing the 1795 Enclosure of Woodborough, but both appear on Sanderson's 1835 map of which a small portion is shown below.
Common to Woodborough - One common arable field next thereunto adjoining and to the town of Woodborough belonging, called the West Field 77a 2r 12p.
The second fuel tank crashed on to the school playing fields.
Sid and Nina had market gardens within Woodborough that were mainly on Roe Lane and Field Lane; they also had some land on Lowdham Lane and Foxwood Lane.
A row of lime trees planted towards the foot of Bank Hill by Charles Hill, owner of
Woodborough Mill lies on the extreme eastern edge of the Woodborough Parish boundary; it is approximately one mile east of the village and lies on the south side of the Dover Beck where it separates the parishes of Woodborough and Epperstone.
Woodborough was formerly in a dense forest called Sherwood Forest, which extended south as far as Colwick and the Leen, west as far as Bulwell, north as far as Welbeck, and east as far as Caythorpe and Gunthorpe, comprising nearly 100,000 acres.
Pinfolds are usually fairly central in the village in a position which had easy access to the surrounding open fields and commons, or near to a stream, or pond for watering animals impounded.
Secular - name and locate Manor Houses, Granges, Halls, Schools, Mills, Farms and farm buildings, Tithe barns, Inns, Old Cottages (especially mention if you have a 'cruck' cottage in your neighbourhood), etc.
The 'leuca' contained 2560 English yards, being equivalent to 1  English miles.
Conditions were not so good and wages not so high on the sandy soil of the ancient Forest of Sherwood, but Woodborough, standing on the belt of clay, would share in the general prosperity.
It was reported that the school had started the construction of the new fence and had requested the removal of the low metal fence between the Village Hall car park and the school.
The name implies that clay from those Closes had at the same time been used for making pottery which occurs in early Woodborough inventories as earthenware.
To the east side of the stone are five clay bricks used as packing stones to prevent the stone collapsing due to subsidence above the burial.
Left, south west elevation 1982 Opposite side fronting to sluice 1982
A new telephone exchange built on Lingwood Lane to house the new automatic system.
Pinfold is in general use in this county and further north, but Pound is more common in the south.
They were in most regular use in the Middle Ages when straying cattle and sheep were common in the open fields which had no hedges or fences to control animals.
During the period between leaving school and getting married, Nina worked on the land for a time before going into domestic service in Nottingham.
A Roman road ran along the Mapperly Plains from this camp to Nottingham, which some identify with the Roman station Gausenn; and I would conjecture that the camp was connected by a road with the station 'Ad Pontem,' on the Fosse-way; probably this road followed the course of Spindle Lane.
It is quite widespread throughout Britain and is found in gardens, woodland and even mountainous and coastal areas if there is a certain amount of scrub cover.
At the eastern end of the parish there is a very good 'A' class road which joins the Nottingham-Ollerton road to the Fosse Way which runs south of the Trent.
The only fault that we can find is that none of the common land was reserved to form a Village Green or Recreation Ground where the children might play and the lads could practice cricket and football.
Moor Lane and Moor Field are half a mile north; Wood Farm, 1 mile north-west; Sansam's Folly, 1  miles west-by-north; Brockwood Dale, half a mile west; Soward, three-quarters of a mile south-west; Stoup Hill House, 2 miles west; Woodborough Dumble, 2  miles west.
This extended outside the evaluation trench and was left in situ.
At that time the Archbishop of York, and a clergyman had land here, and there was land belonging to Southwell Minster.
In 1753 he opened a Private School at Duffield near Derby whence he was preferred to South Wingfield School where he was helped by Dr. Hatton, of Queen's College, Oxford.
Woodborough was not on a main road or direct route between towns.
Above left: Keith & Shirley planting a Copper Beech tree at the corner of Smalls Croft and Main Street, the tree has matured and remains to this day.
Mr Strelley - One close in East Field - 1 acre 1142 Southwell Church - One close adjoining - 2 acres 1143 John Alvey - One other close lying on East Field - 1 acre 1144 Christopher Strelley - One close adjoining - 1 acre 1145 Southwell Church - One other little close adjoining - 1 rude 1146 Nicholas Leyes - One other little close adjoining - 36 perches 1147 Christopher Strelley - Three closes lying near - 4 acres 1148 William Foster - One close near adjoining - 3 rudes
He put a new roof to the Chancel of Bunny Church, built a new Vicarage, and built and endowed the Free School at Bunny with the four Almshouses adjoining.
19th March 2009 Planning Application Proposed Development, the erection of 2.4m and 3.0m high Pallas security fencing and gates to a location at Woodborough Woods School, Lingwood Lane, Woodborough.
This settlement took the form of a hill fort on the hills between Woodborough and Calverton and is still visible today in the form of ditches and mounds.
The building was probably built with local Woodborough bricks, which would have come from the Bank Hill brickyard.
The Jury, appointed by the Court Leet, checks each autumn that the common areas of the open fields are in good condition.
In view of the distance between church and the cemetery, and the steep hill, a horse-drawn cart or hearse owned by the Parish Council was kept at the cemetery lych gate.
The parish contains 1948 acres of land, and in 1871 had 212 houses and 898 inhabitants.
The nearest money order office is at Epperstone; telegraph office at Lowdham Station.
Other points of interest are the number of water-mills on the Dover-Beck, two belonging to the Woodborough and four to the Epperstone Manors; the enormous forests on the hills, 2 leugae (3 miles) long, 5 quarentan (5 furlongs) wide, which surrounded the small clearings of arable land round the manor houses in the valley, the oaks shedding their acorns for the swine of the labourers, and the open glades providing grass for the cattle; the similarity of this forest to the size and shape of the present parish, and the names Uluiet, Aluric, Alden, from which come the local names Ulyett, Alvey and Allen.
Southwell Church - One other close next thereunto adjoining, in the occupation of Christopher Foster, tenant, the Church of Southwell, freeholder, 18a 0r 39p.
The sykes (grassy areas in the open fields) are not sprayed with weed killer or fertiliser and are designated as 'unimproved grassland'.
If there were in fact two the smaller pug mill has a convenient supply of water nearby, a pond, perhaps fed by a spring.
This Manor therefore contained a larger proportion of arable land, and was probably on the site of Mr. Thorpe's Manor House and the Mill on the site of Woodborough Mill.
Christopher Turner - One other parcel of wood next thereunto adjoining, in the occupation of Christopher Turner, freeholder 2a 3r 5p.
Thorneywood, which is nearby to Woodborough Hall, is house believed to have been built by one or more of the sisters.
By comparison, Woodborough has an area of 2023 acres (3 square miles).
There were four bells in the tower and a local rhyme describes their sound in comparison with neighbouring churches.
The third pilot landed in Ploughman Wood near to Lowdham Grange borstal.
There are still many good examples today of former frame knitter's cottages and workshops in Woodborough, as indeed there are in many other towns and villages.
John Wood - One close adjoining - 4 acres 1125 - One long parcel of land lying on the bounds of the Forest, extending from Swanne Poole to Christopher Strelley's mill (dated 1125c) - 107acres 1126 Common - Common field adjoining called Moor Field Common - 222 acres 1127 Christopher Foster - Two other little closes lying on 1126 - 2 acres 1128 Nicholas Leyes - One other close lying near said town (Woodborough) 1 acre 1129 Thomas Alvey - One close adjoining - 1 acre 1130 Thomas Wyer - One close adjoining - 1 acre 1131 Richard Alvey - One close adjoining - 1 acre 1132 Henry Alvey - One close adjoining - 1 rude 1133 - One close adjoining called Ould Meade - 1 acre 1134 Nicholas Leyes - One close adjoining - 1 rude 1135 Thomas Alvey - One close adjoining - 3 rudes 1136 Thomas Wyer - One close adjoining - ?
The Edwardian Gardens at Rufford Philip Jones continues his story of the historic gardens at Rufford Abbey, this time tracing their development in the very early years of the twentieth century.
All the evidence suggests that Nottingham City Council has little interest in its museum responsibilities, other than its 'flagship' sites at Nottingham Castle and Wollaton Hall.
Part of the University's Jubilee Campus, Triumph Road, Lenton, is built on the Raleigh factory site.
Prior to the Forum, Nottingham local historians tended to focus on their locality or area of interest and had little contact with other local historians in and around the city.
The Museum used to be hidden away from view on the main campus, but now takes centre stage at the south entrance off University Boulevard and is part of the Lakeside Arts Centre and Djanology Art Gallery located in Highfields Park.
Tour round St Mary's Church, Lacemarket, Pauline Miller, Basford & D LHS, meet at South Porch of St Mary's, 2.00p.m.
Growing up near Warsop Main Colliery Jeff Noble describes growing up living in a stone terraced house next to the sidings of the colliery, where his father was underground engineer.
Others include 'Nottingham City Council' (accession 7909) which relates to 45 documents, comprising 1:500 OS maps of the city area and 'drawings of service tunnels and vaults under the city centre'.
Fishponds Road, heading away from Bristol
From here the final approach to the target required a four minute leg along the north bank of the River Severn to the second turning point at Beachley, near Chepstow, followed by a short north to south run-in to Bristol.
Incidents were infact reported over the whole of Southern England, from Hastings to North Somerset, with the highest concentration in the rural areas around Highbridge and Weston super Mare.
On Fishpond's northern edge, there are two large parks, Eastville Park in the west, and the Oldbury Court Estate (locally known as Vassals Park) to the east.
Ships entering the River Avon from the Bristol Channel had to contend with seven miles of winding river with fast currents and an exceptionally high tidal range before they reached the quays in the city centre.
At Avonmouth the Concentration Point was a rectangle covering the port area adjacent warehouses and industrial works, while at Bristol it was centred on the Floating Harbour, down stream of the Bathurst Basin.
Crashed at Church Farm, Woolverton, near Frome, Somerset at 12.02 hrs.
wide, running in two metal channels secured to the leat walls, close to the wheel.
Crashed at Stock Lane, Langford near Weston-s-Mare, at 22.55 hrs en-route for Liverpool.
The bombing had, by this time, dispersed along the Bristol Channel coast, past Clevedon where a soldier was killled and three people injured, to Weston super Mare where a sharp attack took place.
Fishponds is a suburb of Bristol, situated about three miles to the east of the town centre.
Although during the eighteenth century the Gloucestershire industry came to depend on increasingly on the import of merino wool from Spain large quantities of wool were still being bought from the nearby markets of Cirencester and Tetbury (23).
The government is planning to publish a Waterways for Tomorrow document in early 2010, which will set out the government's policy for the future of inland waterways in England and Wales ?
Southampton City Council is proposing to develop a new 5.5m museum in the city which will tell the city's story from pre-history to the present day.
Bath & North-East Somerset (39.5%) is next to Gloucestershire (85.5%), Gwent (33%) is next to Gwynedd (76.5%) and York City (35%) is next to West Yorkshire (86.5%).
Nottingham City Council is about to announce its decision to close the popular Nottingham Industrial Museum, which is located in Wollaton Park.
Nottingham City Council is about to announce its decision to close the popular Nottingham Industrial Museum, which is located in Wollaton Park, next to Wollaton Hall, which has just been refurbished at a cost of 7m.
A view of the Bishop's Palace and Garden from the roof of Wells Cathedral.
The Bishop's Palace next to Wells Cathedral is at the centre of a 4.8 million development project to improve and update the Palace.
From historians in America, Australia, England, France, Hungary, Ireland, Japan, Scotland, South Africa and Wales came descriptions of approaches to local history which revealed a commonality when it came to origins and present-day challenges.
Bessie in Regent Street
David Leask's Maddiston Pages are about the history of a small village near Falkirk in central Scotland.
In 2000 metal detectorist Ken Wallace, and other volunteers from the Hallaton Fieldwork Group, came across some Roman pottery in a field outside their village.
Ulnes Walton had within its boundaries wayside stone crosses.
St James's Cemetery, St James's Gardens behind the Anglican Cathedral, Liverpool.
Berkshire Hampshire Surrey Heathlands Local History and Archaeology Research Forum (HEATHHIST) A joint initiative of historical and archaeological societies in the area covered by the heathlands in Berkshire, (north) Hampshire and Surrey to investigate the local history that arises from the unusual geology of the area.
By clear felling a plantation of Norway Spruce fir trees in Puddletown Forest, near Dorchester, the Forestry Commission has painstakingly uncovered a very remarkable section of ancient Roman road.
The project will tell the story of rural wayside crosses which marked the routes of prayer and coffin trails.
This will leave Nottingham with four sites: Nottingham Castle (including Brewhouse Yard), Wollaton Hall, Green's Windmill in Sneinton and Newstead Abbey, famous for its Lord Byron links, and for which the Council has tried to find new owners in the past, but without success.
They include, for example, the Belgravia Conservation Area in central London, the industrial heritage of Birmingham's Jewellery Quarter, the fishing village of Clovelly in North Devon and the Victorian People's Park Conservation Area in Halifax.
The construction and history of mediaeval timber-framed houses in England and Wales.
The East Midlands Oral History Archive which 'has been established to create the first large-scale archive of oral history recordings in the East Midlands.
A narrow boat on the Trent and Mersey Canal heads for a local canal festival at the Etruria Industrial Museum, Stoke-on-Trent.
There are plans for a new history centre in Maidstone, which will be at the centre of future service development and deciding what to do next is the 'challenge' which Kent Archives and Local History Service is trying to address.
Shop managers would love anyone with knowledge of the history of the local area to take part by giving talks on local history in the shop, or guided historical walks in the area.
The project will create a travelling exhibition, which will tour museum and library venues around Hampshire, following an initial exhibition on the University campus.
Tudor timber-framed farmhouse still standing at Stratford Place, Birmingham B12 0HT.
To buy the excellent Thomas Cook rail map of Europe at Amazon.co.uk, click here.
This is while railways in Istanbul are transformed with the new Bosphorus rail tunnel, and a new underground station in European Istanbul, serving train to both Europe and Asia.
The E&O enters Malaysia, passes through Johor Bharu's new Central Station and heads up the Malay peninsula past many palm oil plantations, passing wayside colonial station such as Gemas and Tampin...
It's easy to travel by train from London to Berlin in one day, and from just 49 euros ('44), using a morning Eurostar to Brussels, a high-speed ICE train to Cologne, then Germany's luxurious high-speed InterCity Express (ICE) onwards to Berlin.
The train soon leaves the Munich suburbs behind and snakes through pretty Bavarian countryside, past tiny villages nestling in green valleys, picturesque chalets and Bavarian churches with tall, slender spires.
Train+ferry fares from UK stations to 'Dublin City' include the DART train to Dublin Connolly, but it's 2.50 euros extra each way if your ticket is only to Dun Laoghaire.
Serbian restaurant car on the Munich-Ljubljana-Belgrade EuroCity train 'Sava' Above: A beer in the Serbian restaurant car.
If you need to transfer between Madrid Chamartin & Madrid Atocha stations, see the Chamartin to Atocha transfer info here.
London to other cities in France
They use the Spanish Railways reservation system, so have access to the cheap fares within Spain, whereas Rail Europe don't.
Above: The main concourse at Brussels Midi station, a subway underneath the tracks...
Tehran railway station ticket hall, Iran Tehran station, Iran Above: Tehran railway station.
There may be a buffet car serving tea, coffee, beer and snacks, but it's always a good idea to take your own supplies of food, water and wine or beer.
Option 2: By train+ferry to Greece then direct ferry from Piraeus to Israel...
Buses reportedly leave Nanning bus station at 08:30.
Step 2, if you are using www.raileurope.co.uk, the painless way to add an onward ticket from Milan or Bologna to Rimini, Ancona, Bari, etc., is to click 'continue shopping' and book the onward ticket with Rail Europe.
Or take Eurostar to Brussels and a high-speed train to Cologne, then the overnight City Night Line sleeper train 'Borealis' to Odense & Copenhagen.
This train takes you through the amazingly scenic Gotthard route, past towering snow-capped mountains, villages & vineyards, climbing steadily up to the Gotthard Tunnel then descending towards Italy, with glimpses of Lake Lugano.
Once safely across the Channel in Calais, Paris or Hoek van Holland, you can take a dog or cat with you on most trains across Europe, sometimes free, sometimes for a small charge, sometimes with a normal child-rate ticket.
The train now crosses and briefly runs alongside Highway 1, the Trans-Canada Highway.
New Zealand: Trans Scenic's 'TranzCoastal' between Picton and Christchurch will resume running on 15 August and will revert to its historic name, Coastal Pacific'.
To reach the V'rtahamnen terminal in Stockholm, take a transfer bus from the Cityterminal (the bus station next to Stockholm Central Station).
Direct sleeper trains Rome, Florence, Milan, Venice to Vienna: There are direct sleeper trains from Rome (19:05), Florence (21:37) & Milan (21:05) to Vienna Meidling arriving 08:34, and from Venice (depart 21:05) to Salzburg & Vienna Westbahnhof arriving 08:22.
For Verona or Venice: Travel from Turin or Milan to Venice or Verona by Frecciabianca train.
Day 3 morning: Travel from Milan to Paris by high-speed Paris-Italy TGV, leaving Milan Porto Garibaldi station at 06:07 and arriving Paris Gare de Lyon at 13:23.
At L'beck, leave the station and follow the signs to the 'ZOB' bus station.
It has two upper and two lower berths, curtains, fresh clean sheets & pillows, and small table.
Cork, Limerick or Galway to London costs 65 euros by ship or 71 euros by Swift fast ferry.
Passengers travelling alone who can't afford the single-berth sleeper fare can share a 2-bed or 3-bed compartment with other sleeper passengers of the same sex.
The site for the telegraph station was chosen because there was water, a spring which was named after the wife of Charles Todd, superintendent of telegraphs in Adelaide.
From Moscow, daily trains run to Cologne & Amsterdam, with connections for London, see the London to Russia page.
This allows one return journey from your point of entry (in this case Lausanne) to any station in Switzerland, for '93 return 2nd class, '140 return 1st class.
On the return journey, book the Riga-Vilnius bus at Riga bus station, and the Vilnius-Warsaw train at either Vilnius station.
The Glacier Express: Perhaps the most scenic train journey in Switzerland, or indeed Europe.
However, this option is more of an adventure with many separate stages, rather than as a simple A to B means of transport.
Station traders in Siberia Food for sale on the platform
Train routes in Australia...
The journey from London to Israel takes about seven nights.
Waterloo station, Belgium The Butte de Lion monument at Waterloo, Belgium Panorama building and visitor centre, seen from the top of the Butte de Lion Arrival at Waterloo station, a few miles to the battle site...
DB Nachtzug (German Railways sleeper trains) and CityNightLine (German-owned operator of international night trains crossing Germany) have merged and been re-branded as City Night Line.
The ferry port is east of the town centre of Girne, the main tourist resort in TRNC, with plenty of hotels shops and restaurants, and its old castle and pretty yacht harbour.
Prague's main Hlavni station is in the city centre, just 15 minutes walk from Prague's historic old town and 20 minutes walk from the famous Kings Charles Bridge.
But if you want to stop off in Dublin for more than this, simply buy separate London-Dublin and Dublin-Belfast tickets (see the Ireland page for London-Dublin & www.IrishRail.ie for Dublin-Belfast).
Alternatively, stop overnight in Geneva, Lausanne, Bern or Basel...
Coming from Calais, you normally take a local train from Calais Ville station to Boulogne and change there onto an express from Boulogne to Paris Gare du Nord.
From Brussels, high-speed Thalys and ICE trains take less than 2 hours to reach Cologne.
The hotel is now all that's left of Princes Street station, which was closed in 1965, all trains now use the North British Railway's Edinburgh's Waverley station.
Murder on the Orient Express by Agatha Christie (actually set on the Simplon Orient Express, as she knew full well)
The 'Edwin Fox' museum ship can be seen, with Picton station a red-roofed cream building just above and to the right.
Unfortunately, although Brittany Ferries (www.brittanyferries.co.uk) from Portsmouth to Bilbao & Plymouth to Santander have kennels on board their ships, they won't let foot passengers take dogs, only motorists.
Although Rudyard Kipling wrote the 'Road to Mandalay', Moulmein was the only Burmese city which he actually visited, and the main pagoda on the ridge overlooking the city is the setting for his poem 'Burma Girl'.
Journeys falling into this category include Pisa to Florence, Florence to Siena, Brussels to Bruges, Paris to Versailles, Geneva to Bern, and (although in fact international, just bear with me on this) Brussels to Luxembourg and the hourly (non-high-speed) InterCity trains between Brussels & Amsterdam.
Taxis and cars hired in the north cannot cross the green line to the south.
For Dublin Heuston station (trains to Cork, Limerick, Galway) take the LUAS tram (1.50 euros, www.luas.ie) from Connolly station to Heuston.
The Orient Express was cut back to start in Strasbourg rather than Paris in June 2007 when the Paris-Strasbourg high-speed TGV line opened, meaning that it could no longer be combined with a French domestic train between Paris & Strasbourg.
After a day in Amsterdam you'll find a direct City Night Line sleeper train from Amsterdam to Zurich, which you can book online at www.bahn.de.
The Simplon Orient Express also provided daily though sleeping-cars from Calais and Paris to Athens.
First book the train from Paris to L'Hospitalet and back.
Option 4: The scenic 'Brenner Pass' route via Munich, by Eurostar & sleeper or TGV...
Belgium, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Switzerland, Germany, Austria, Denmark: With a handful of exceptions, internal & international trains within and between these countries don't require a seat reservation or surcharge, even on premier high-speed inter-city trains like Germany's superb ICE.
See the London to Basel & Zurich section for full details of London-Basel & London-Zurich fares.
The other option is to use the Greek railways bus/train connecting service from Patras to Kiato to Athens.
London to Turkey by ferry from Italy
As you walk into town from the ferry, you'll easily spot it on your right high up on the edge of the Medina overlooking the port.
You can travel from London to Munich by daytime trains, via a choice of two routes: * Option 1, take Eurostar to Paris, walk from the Gare du Nord to Gare de l'Est (10 minutes), then take a direct high-speed TGV from Paris to Stuttgart or Munich.
Just over 3 hours from Picton, the train swings inland again, through green hills and pretty valleys.
Ankara station is in central Ankara, unlike the long-distance bus terminal (2-3 miles outside the city) or the airport (15-20 miles outside).
Hanoi Gia Lam station Photo showing the dual gauge tracks at Gia lam station Hanoi's Gia Lam station (see location map) is a tiny suburban station across the river in northern Hanoi, a 20 minute taxi ride from the main station.
First, check ferry sailing times & dates between Poole, Weymouth or Portsmouth and the Channel Islands at www.condorferries.co.uk.
Another option is to take an overnight ferry to Holland, spend a day in Amsterdam, then take the City Night Line sleeper from Amsterdam to Munich then change for Austria.
A 125 mph tilting X2000 train from Copenhagen to Stockholm, at Copenhagen station...
The tour includes: * Glacier Express holidays & tours Flights UK to Toronto; * A day trip to Niagara Falls; * A journey across Canada Canada from Toronto to Jasper aboard VIA Rail's trans-continental 'Canadian' in Silver & Blue sleeper class; * A coach tour from Jasper to Banff with a Columbia ice fields glacier visit; * A journey on the Rocky Mountaineer Kicking Horse route from Banff to Vancouver.
Brittany Ferries' ships 'Pont Aven' and 'Cap Finist're' are truly excellent, a wonderful way to reach Spain with more in common with cruise liners than Channel ferries of old.
If this goes ahead, Greece will be cut off from the rest of Europe, except by ferry from Italy.
A journey from Europe to China on the Trans-Mongolian Express...
Eastbound journey (via Bucharest):Westbound journey (via Bucharest):London to Paris by EurostarDate:Sofia to Bucharest by sleeper train or day trainDate:Time:16:01/15:31Time:09:10 or 20:30Class:2nd classAccom4:Seat or sleeper 3Paris to Munich by City Night Line sleeper trainDate:Bucharest to Budapest by EN 'Ister' sleeper train 'Date:Time:20:05/20:20Time:19:00Accom1:6-berth couchette 1Accom4:3-bed sleeper 2Munich to Budapest by RailJet trainDate:Budapest to Munich by RailJet trainDate:Time:09:27Time:13:10Class:2nd classClass:2nd classBudapest to Bucharest by EN 'Ister' sleeper trainDate: Time: Accom: 19:15 3-bed sleeper 2Munich to Paris by City Night Line sleeperDate: Time: Accom: 22:47 6-berth couchette 1Bucharest to Sofia by 'Romania'Date:Paris to London by EurostarDate:Time:13:00Time:11:13Accom2:2nd class seatClass:2nd class1 = Choose between 6- or 4-berth couchettes, 1, 2 or 3 bed sleeper, 1, 2 or 3 bed deluxe sleeper with toilet & shower; 2 = Choose between 6- or 4-berth couchettes, 1, 2 or 3 bed sleeper with washbasin, 1 2 or 3 bed sleeper with toilet & shower; 3 = The night train is believed to have 4-berth sleepers.
With two-thirds of the northern rail tunnel back in action, Eurostar are running 93% of their normal service levels, but a revised timetable will apply from 1 October to 13 December (and possibly beyond this).
You can book the London-Paris-Munich section online (or at least check prices) at www.raileurope.co.uk (to see the best price for each leg, check this as two journeys, London-Paris & back, and then Paris to Munich & back).
A useful combo is to use either www.eurostar.com or www.b-europe.com to book London-Cologne then use www.bahn.de to book onward trains into Germany, or the sleeper trains from Cologne to Vienna, Prague, Copenhagen, Warsaw, etc. www.bahn.de can also book the sleeper trains from Amsterdam to Prague, Warsaw, Copenhagen, Munich, Zurich and so on, and many international trains to or from Germany.
On Eurostar from London to Paris or Brussels, and on Thalys trains between Brussels & Cologne, and matter in much of Europe including France, children under 4 go free, children under 12 pay the child rate.
At Calais, the coaches drive off the shuttle train at the Eurotunnel terminal and head for Calais Ville station.
Phase 2 will ultimately see safe modern Gautrain service extended to Johannesburg Park Station in downtown Johannesburg (used by Premier Classe long-distance trains) and to the administrative capital Pretoria in the north.
View of Salzburg from the train TV screen showing the train's location TV screen showing speed The view from the train: This is the view of Salzburg as the RailJet crosses the Salzach river approaching Salzburg station...
London to Syria overland by train
There are also international trains from key Ukrainian cities to Moscow, St Petersburg, Riga, Minsk, Tallinn, Warsaw, Budapest, Berlin, Prague, Vienna, and Krakow.
Singapore station to close by July 2011 - trains will start from Woodlands instead...
A 1st class ticket is still required in Italy, Russia, Ukraine and domestic sleeper routes in Romania plus some other countries.
There is a direct City Night Line sleeper train leaving Prague Hlavni at 18:29 and arriving next morning in Basel 07:54 and Zurich at 09:17.
Hanoi main station on Le Duan Street.
You'll be treated to a departure past all the small boats in Poole Harbour, a call at St Peter Port in Guernsey, then a trip right along the south-west coast of Jersey past Corbi're lighthouse, St Brelade's Bay and Portlet Bay, then an entrance to St Helier Harbour passing right by Elizabeth Castle.
Smile and toast the other passengers arriving from their 90+ minute bus / tuk-tuk / Friendship Bridge Customs journey who didn't know about this option.
High-speed Eurostar trains now link London and Paris in just 2' hours, centre to centre, with fares from '39 one-way or '69 return if you book in advance.
The best view of Florence is from the top of the Duomo's dome.
Eastbound journey:Westbound journey:London to Paris by EurostarDate:Kiev to Berlin by Kashtan sleeper train'Date: Cannot be booked from UK, so buy at station on arrival in Kiev'Time:16:01 / 15:31Time:08:30Class:2nd classAccom5:3-berth sleeper 5Paris to Berlin by City Night Line sleeper trainDate:Berlin to Paris by City Night Line sleeper trainDate:Time:20:20 / 20:05Time:20:07Accom:6-berth couchettes4Accom:6-berth couchette 4Berlin to Kiev by Kashtan sleeper train'Date:Time:16:38 / 21:50 Time:11:13Accom5:3-berth sleeper 5Class:2nd class4 = The choice is between seat, 6 or 4 berth couchette, 1, 2 or 3 bed sleeper, 1, 2 or 3 berth deluxe sleeper with shower.
Toronto to Ottawa takes about 4 hours 20 minutes.
Day 1, travel from Paris to Milan by high-speed Paris-Italy TGV, leaving Paris Gare de Lyon daily at 14:41 and arriving Milan Porto Garibaldi at 21:45.
Travel from Malaga to Madrid by high-speed AVE train, leaving Malaga at 15:05 and arriving Madrid Atocha station at 17:40.
Frequent trains of the Tobu Railway link Tokyo Asakusa station with Nikko in less than 2 hours (Japan Rail Passes don't cover the Tobu Railway).
Any station in Britain to Douglas.
It's opposite the main exit from Brussels Midi station on the platform 1 side of the station (the Eurostar terminal side).
Local trains link Malaga station with Torremolinos (journey time 23 minutes, fare 1.40 euros) and Fuengirola (journey 47 minutes, fare 2.50 euros).
There are good bus services between all major points on Jersey and Guernsey.
Just be aware that it's a longish steep walk from Sorrento Circumvesuviana station down the hill to the ferry terminal.
Raffles Hotel, a little colonial island in a sea of modern high-rise blocks.
Next morning, take the ferry from Europe to Africa, the Rock of Gibraltar close on the port beam and the African coast getting slowly nearer.
If you drive around the Highlands, the winding single-track roads of childhood memory have sadly been replaced across much of the countryside by wide straight 60mph concrete highways blasted thoughtlessly through the landscape.
This train crosses Siberia, cuts across Mongolia and the Gobi desert, then enters China.
The ferry from Marseille arrives in the Bay of Tunis
As well as crossing the famous Bridge on the River Kwai, the train runs along the beautifully scenic River Kwae, passing at slow speed over the impressive Wampo Viaduct (sometimes written Wang Po), also built by prisoners of war.
You can visit the battle site, climbing the 'Butte de Lion' (the lion monument, built on a man-made mound in 1823-1826) for a superb view over the whole battlefield.
The train swings right onto a causeway across the Orakei Basin (a submerged crater of an extinct volcano), passing occasional local trains as it snakes its way through the Auckland suburbs.
Christchurch's original station (well, the building opened in 1960 though built to a design first published in 1938) still stands on Moorhouse Avenue to the south of the city centre where it is now the 'Science Alive' entertainment centre.
At Castleford Junction we turned left onto the Leeds & Liverpool Canal.
This is now a fixed low level timber bridge across which a farm track passes.
The canal bed was left intact, but over the years self-set undergrowth in the silt above the puddle clay gradually took over.
Water flowing freely into canal from north-west and out towards the River Great Ouse to the south-east.
Brick work leading into bridge hole still in place.
From Culvert (2) to Bridge 13: Canal bed still visible following hedgerow, boggy in places.
Condition of Canal Bed From Bridge 13 to Bridge 14: Canal bed still visible - following hedgerow.
In fact the Cosgrove road ran along the top of a small 15/20 foot cliff face which was obviously the face of the quarry (limestone).
The canal climbs steadily through the Calder valley with beautiful scenery all around interspersed with 'Last of the Summer Wine' grey stone houses precariously clinging to the hill sides.
to Ashton-under-Lyne where the Huddersfield Narrow Canal joins.
There was a tall brick building on the right, then an open yard area edging the water where boats presumably unloaded, then a long stone barn whose south eastern wall fell straight into the water.
This ice-house was constructed in stone with very thick walls with the greater part of its interior being under ground level.
Used for moorings by Cosgrove Marina.
There is no chance that Mr Mold would NOT have used the Buckingham Canal link in 1841 if he was moving the timber to a town east, west or north of Buckingham.
So if you arrive late (e.g. after 10.30) directions for the site are as follows: at the sharp left hand turn to Cosgrove turn right down the track, drive down as far as you can then park and walk to the bottom of the track , turn left walking parallel to the A5 and meet us at the work site just before the farm gate.
Covered in short grass reeds, some brambles and the occasional small tree.
The route of the canal is clear, and a number of trees and bushes which lined the canal bank still remain in hollows in the landscaping.
Water-borne transport had an immense impact on the area - coal, stone, bricks, manufactured goods, imported produce from London Docks were all more readily available, at much lower cost, than ever before; and local produce could be moved faster and more easily, whether it was foodstuffs to the local market, or the boat-loads of hay and straw that were exported to London to provide for the horse-drawn transport of the City.
Twelve decorated canal boats puffed their way into Buckingham Canal Basin on May Day 1801.
North of the bridge, the brick work leading to bridge hole (towpath side) is still intact.
Condition of Canal Bed In good condition, apart from reeds and small trees growing in the bed.
showing position of pipeline running from North-west to South-east beneath canal.
A brick wall is reached beyond a bridge, with a number of obstructions over the next stretch.
Prior to the Lower Wharf, the line runs through a playing field, infilled, but unobstructed.
Turnover Lock (1/4 mile uphill, nearer Newton), is sited on Ice-Age Boulder Clay.
In later years David Adams of Bridge Farm (opposite Riverside Garage) established ACE Plant Hire in this field - I guess it is still there.
At the south-east corner of this field the canal made a 90-degree turn west, with a short arm going straight into what we called 'The Wharf'.
From Aqueduct to Culvert: Canal bed has been obliterated and very difficult to discern line of canal.
The footpath has been diverted around the lock cottage to the west (AVDC (Footpath No 27 Parish of Buckingham) Public Path Diversion Order 1989.
Thornton Church, College & Parish: If you are researching the history of villages near the canal line the Thornton website could be well worth a visit.
This ice house was constructed of stone with very thick walls with the greater part of its interior being under ground level.
Wharf buildings on South-eastern side of wharf: Still exist, and have been extended, together with additional buildings.
Canal & Lift Bridge near Deanshanger
This has already been recognised by Buckinghamshire County Council, which has created the Ouse Valley Walk along the line of the towpath within the County.
The bridge serviced a stony track that ran from a gate on the Cosgrove road opposite what is still known as the 'Quarries', and is still I think used by the Scouts for camping.
Harold Barnet was born to a well-known boating family on the Grand Junction Canal.
River Section to bridge 26: Towpath obliterated along with the canal, footpath clear.
At the Aqueduct, public footpath crosses line of canal to north side, along the edge of the A422 road over Cattleford Bridge, then rejoins line of canal to the south of the aqueduct.
Condition of Canal Bed From Bridge 4 to A422 Road: Canal infilled and obstructed by the A422 Old Stratford By-pass.
In about 1820, the owner of Cosgrove Hall built an ice-house halfway between the arm and the hall.
There is an interpretation board at this point beside the Grand Union briefly recording the history of the Newport Pagnell canal and showing a circular walk where traces of the canal can be seen.
Well, even during the war he would still take his horse-boat up to Coventry for a load.
The large numbers of trees and shrubs within and bordering the survey site offer a large number of potential nesting sites to birds, several species of which were observed during the field survey.
Improved grassland and tall ruderal habitats dominated the disused canal bed and banks and scrub is beginning to encroach.
North Bucks was almost inaccessible, hiding behind its screen of oozing clay until the canal link arrived two hundred years ago.
Travelling down the tidal River Trent our first diversion was onto the Chesterfield Canal at West Stockwith.
My memory recalls that this was a brick lined semi-circular culvert that ran down the southern slope of the hill through an area of rough land and into the brook.
The canal executed a long curve on this embankment and was in water.
We then took a detour to Huddersfield to look at the Huddersfield Narrow Canal.
The boundary between the 'Rec' and the canal was a high unkempt hedge with plenty of gaps to access the towpath.
Beyond this fence, footpath is obliterated by crops.
Originally, the Grand Junction plans relied on lock flights and a river-level crossing to traverse the Great Ouse Valley at Wolverton, but the river was prone to serious flooding in the winter months, and after due consideration new plans including the embankments and aqueduct we are familiar with came into being, to avoid the obvious threat to traffic.
Gordon Thomas In 1911, the GJ Engineer, Gordon Thomas, ordered Thomas Holt to dig a trench to intercept the Langham Leaks, filling it with concrete to form a massive 'deep well' against the (downhill) towpath bank.
Other marker posts are visible to North-west and South-east.
Until the Rochdale and the Huddersfield Narrow Canals are fully open this is the only Canal which takes you up over the Pennines (and it really is beautiful) and down the other side to Wigan.
Additionally, there is a storm water overflow into the river at this point.
Bridge close to mill.
Small areas of swamp were recorded in the disused canal bed.
Description of Barges & Operaters This man describes people and barges, horses and canalside characters between Buckingham & Leckhampstead Wharf * Back to BCS Home Page
As well as clearing a mile of canal the society is also restoring a stone and brick bridge at Little Hill Farm.
This field was accessed by another timber bridge - your Bridge 4 - which as you say has probably now been buried under the junction of the new Old Strafford bypass.
Condition of Towpath/Footpath From Bridge 19 to Aqueduct: In good condition, and has recently been cleared through woods north of aqueduct, (with renewal of stile at edge of wood).
It is called Dogsmouth Brook, by the way, because of a spring that used to issue from a Dogs Mouth in the bank near the road bridge over the brook on the old Northampton Road at its junction with the Cosgrove road.
West of Bridge 19, depth of canal banks was measured at c.
Very little remaining of bridge -masonry on canal bed.
Feed from River Great Ouse.
The towpath rejoined down a ramp on the south-eastern side behind the village shop and the canal continued in a shallow cutting past the rear of the Memorial Hall, a row of houses, an allotment and then two brick built bungalows all sandwiched on the narrow strip of land between the canal and the Deanshanger Road.
Here we meet the other end of the Rochdale Canal, which rises by nine locks to join with the Ashton Canal, another restoration success story.
This whole complex was accessed through some fine wooden gates just to the north of the row of small brick built terrace cottages fronting the A5 to the north of the canal.
In the early years of this century, 20-30 boats a year were still trading to Maids Moreton; roadstone was still being carried to Leckhampstead for the Rural District Council, and general trade continued to and from Deanshanger.
The flower bedecked, glory barges bought for the opening ceremony had been stripped of their finery and were flogged ready to carry bricks to Buckingham.
The canal ran from Newtown basin, where there were lime kilns, to the Wyrley and Essington Canal.
Blockage (2) 731356 Just to the east of Culvert (3) a large earth bank is blocking the line of the canal bed.
culverts run underneath following line of canal.
The locks bed had only been out of use for a few short years, when the winter storm during 1808 caused the original aqueduct to be washed away.
East side (through hedgerow and over embankment) end of brick culvert still quite apparent but in less good condition.
He lived at Blisworth, where the Northampton Branch of the canal joins, and controlled all GJ waters from Braunstgon to Fenny Stratford, including the Buckingham and Newport Pagnell branches.
Bridge 2 was a lovely stone structure with a wooden farm gate and stile at its northern side.
The Buckingham Canal opened up a new source of wood (from Stowe) that formerly would have been far too expensive to use outside of its local area because of the poor communications.
The track to the bridge ran south along the edge of a field (with a dry stone wall on its eastern edge) to Bridge 2.
The whole enterprise was aided by Auctioneers who strode across the landscape setting up shop in local Inns to sell houses and other assets, such as the wood from local plantations.
Completely intact, with walls and stonewall at edge of towpath.
Some new developments can be helpful in ensuring that old canals are not forgotten and this can truly be said of the Giffard Park housing estate which borders onto the Grand Union Canal at Great Linford and comes within the Milton Keynes boundary.
At Littleborough the canal runs through a culvert under a road, so this is currently the terminus.
Although the Aylesbury arm was quite hard work it was well worth the effort, very rural right to the last bit into the town which although we were made to feel welcome by the 'harbour master' we had decided to moor in the country for the night as it was so peaceful.
After this bridge the canal followed the line of the Deanshanger Road on its western side, again slightly below the level of the road.
Line passes through a school playground.
A public tarmac path follows the line of the towpath on the edge of a housing estate.
On our trip to the Leicester ring in August we arrived at Buckby bottom lock to be met by 10 young ladies very lightly dressed on 'Woodlark', a Gayton boat.
That first canal trip was Wolverhampton to Llangollen and back in a week, starting from the Double Pennant Boat Yard.
To the south of the towpath at this point, on the corner of the A5 and Cosgrove road, was Chapmans Yard where the Chapman brothers had a coach-building business building wooden cattle lorry bodies and carts.
Boughton Meadow, Buckingham Streetmap This site is in private ownership the owner being Nick Hawes of ATN Farms and is also on part of the North Ouse Valley Walk.
For just fifty years the GJ had no real competition for the carriatge of bulk cargoes: 'Conveyance by water, to Cosgrove - from whence goods are conveyed to all parts of the Kingdom; Edward Miller Mundy's boat from the old wharf every Friday to Derby & Leicester, Rogers & MacDonald's boat from the new wharf'.
Buckingham Canal Society volunteers have rebuilt the overflow spillweir and repaired the culvert that runs into the River Great Ouse.
The track that lead over this bridge was opposite Holton's Garage and I think the Holton family built a bungalow in the 'marshy' bit and used the bridge as access to it.
During 1998 Don and I took an extended trip round the English canal system on our narrow boat 'Cyrus Lily' and were able to penetrate the previously (for us) uncharted waters of the North East.
The canal is currently stanked off from the off side of the Wyrley and Essington Canal, just to the west of Pelsall junction with the Cannock Extension Canal.
The line of the canal is shown by footpaths, hedgerows and trees running South-South-West towards Wharf House from the top of the map just below the 'a' of 'Heritage': below Wharf House the line of the canal curves towards the East behind a row of gardens.
Obviously, the new Deanshanger bypass has destroyed much of the next section of canal but when travelling along this road on a bus in the direction of Buckingham you used to be able to see the line of the canal quite clearly across the fields to the south.
From Bridge 11 to Bridge 12: Water on canal bed 400 yards before and up to bridge.
The remaining group of locks skirted the allotments before the terminal basin area.
We had been advised that to go North first to complete the circuit was the best route and we can now see why: locking was steady on the first part, easy on the Thames with the help of lock keepers, heavy going from Brentford up to the Tring summit, then fairly steady to Fenny Strafford, leaving a nice long rest before getting home to Pennyland.
Covered in medium undergrowth of reeds and grasses.
Prior to the Lower Wharf, obliterated, but public access across a playing field.
The opening of this lock in 1996 now enables access from the main canal system, currently up to the summit level near Warland.
The canal near Maids Moreton Mill provided the young Jack and his friends with 'one of the finest bits of fishing'; the eels being easier to catch in the canal than the river which passes close by.
Buildings 699342 Cottages to North-west of terminus wharf: North-east cottages still exist.
John Day would state where the forest was located and how far that was from the canal, and therefore from facile transport to all areas served by Britain's burgeoning canal network.
At Culvert (1): Canal bed filled in but right hand embankment still visible.
Beyond that there are only hints of the route in old hedgerows behind houses before it again disappears, this time mostly under the line of the old railway between Wolverton and Newport Pagnell which is now a public foot and cycle path.
Still intact with stream running through on west side.
Some fallen trees partially block the line, but there is no major tree growth in the canal bed itself.
We left one boat at Bulbourne and took Westmead up the short arm to little Tring bridge turning at the winding hole and pulling her backwards to the pumping station where we stopped for lunch and a look round.
Meeting up with our friends on time we continued through pleasant countryside to Worcester where we joined the river at Diglis lock: another small wait here because the lock keeper had a problem with a lady dog owner who was refusing to clear her dog's mess from the lockside path.
Line of canal is discernable by a line of trees (and recently by a new fence).
At the Buckingham end the canal bed can now be seen from the kissing gates at Bourton Meadow down to the Lock Cottage.
There had been earlier contacts; like catching goldfish in the stilled waters of the Stroudwater Canal, glimpses of the Dudley No 2.
And the flood paddle and culvert which drains the canal into the brook are also in good order, although the paddle-gear is missing, and one of the wing walls has cracked and will need rebuilding.
The old hedgerows bordering the survey site are of high wildlife value and hedgerows are a target habitat of the Northamptonshire Action Plan (BAP), therefore the hedgerows should be protected during any future development work.
The plan is to finish clearing the canal bed up to the lock cottage, removing all remaining tree stumps, and then to rebuild the spillweir: so you will all have the chance to learn brick-laying!
Once trade to Buckingham had ceased, the silt was allowed to build up without check; soon it was obstructing the flow from the feeder, and navigation became more and more difficult, especially above the locks.
I was building on a cottage at Wicken and knew of a small derelict barn in the field by the side of the road at this point.
We walked up past the first derelict lock to where, Huddersfield University have taken over the imaginatively restored warehouse buildings.
Linda' had been based at Cosgrove for over 35 years, moving to the old sand and gravel wharf next to the lock from her previous base on the Stratford-on-Avon Canal in 1965 - the year after the legal closure of the Buckingham Arm!
To our pleasant surprise the guidebooks were well out of date and it is now possible to travel a couple of miles to the current head of navigation this end at Staley Wharf, Stalybridge.
The downhill embankment, which carries the towpath, has been breached in three places, where local farmers have bulldozed direct accesses between fields - one of our main engineering tasks is to rebuild a stable embankment at these points.
After this bridge the canal turned south west along the back of 6 wooden bungalows between it and the Cosgrove road and towards the bridge under the 'old' A5.
Condition of Towpath/Footpath As the canal passes through the rear of factory grounds throughout this section, it has not been possible to survey completely.
It was separated from the road by a high hedge but had plenty of water in it.
From the junction with the Wharf arm to the Bridge the canal ran along the north side of another rectangular field that served as the village recreation ground (known as the Rec).
These were the locks that were first used to cross the River Great Ouse below the Iron Trunk.
We have today heard from the Grand Junction Canal that the Company do not claim the fishing in the canal adjoining Thornton Hall Estate and that they intended their letter of the 10th Inst to convey this.
the brick work on both sides of the towpath is in good condition and the culvert beneath the towpath appears to be clear.
Directions: From Milton Keynes direction, take the A422 road towards Buckingham, go past the Deanshanger turning, you will then see a sign for Wicken and a lay-by on your right.
Another path leaves the pedestrian bridge in a southerly direction and passes close to Bridge 3.
Minibus available for return at Leckhampstead (which is about halfway) and at Thornton.
The light growth which springs up each summer takes less and less time to cut away each winter, and now the towpath is clear and open to walkers for the whole length.
First plans for the Old Stratford cut had it leaving the main line at the river crossing, running along the valley floor to Watling Street, and then the Buckingham extension continuing to Passenham village, where it would have rejoined the river, which was to have been canalised to the Town.
Where the Deanshanger road bent right as it left the village'a length of iron railings separated the canal from the road to allow vision on what was a dangerous corner, this also allowed a view of the canal as it swept around the bottom of a field.
We also used to walk to the locks to watch boats working through, and then right along the embankment and over the Iron Trunk to the Galleon.
After Bridge 9 the canal curved east behind what is now a small housing estate, a pub (Kings Head??
path continues through a gate into the Giffard Park estate and follows beside the grassed-over depression, lined with trees on the off side, clearly showing the route of the canal up to the next lock.
Bridge 729355 At site of Culvert (4), embankment on both sides of the canal have been removed and a wooden bridge carries the footpath across the culvert channel.
The western boundary was Cosgrove Road - the old A422 to Northampton.
The towpath was accessed by an inclined path which led from the south side of road near the entrance to the 'Rec' and along between the wall and the road.
There was water in the canal at this point although the section after the bridge towards Deanshanger was heavily overgrown, at this point the canal began diverging from the road again, its line defined by a row of trees and a hedge on the towpath side.
The next twelve locks which drop the canal to Littleborough in less than two miles are useable, but come under a different authority who discourage access by keeping the top section de-watered.
The two boats and crew had nearly four hours wait at Watford flight before being able to continue their rather wet and windy journey home and then on to the Three Locks at Soulbury for the IWA's lock wheeling weekend.
Just round the comer the canal is currently blocked at Rhodesia by a culverted road bridge.
Grindley Brook Village: nothing to do with the Buckingham Canal, but demonstrates the way one village has exploited its canalside location: maybe one day there will be a Deanshanger page like this, or Thornton or...
One of our favorite pastimes was damming this culvert with puddled clay from the brook, which implies that there must have been water coming down it at times - meaning water in the canal.
I understand you have successfully disputed the rights of the Grand Junction Canal Co to take the fishing rights in the canal where it passes through Lord Peurshy's estate.
Perhaps you are familiar with the single storey building which now straddles the entrance to the canal at Linford Wharf, alongside which there are the old wharf buildings both occupied by Cooper's agricultural machinery.
The site of the lock is now a childrens' play area and the road passing across the canal at what would originally have been bridge 4 is appropriately enough called 'Boulter's Lock'.
That is happening today around the Panama Canal in Central America.
Public footpaths leave the old Cosgrove Road, follow both sides of the A5 Trunk Road, crosses the route of the canal and meet at a pedestrian bridge over the A5 Trunk Road, approximately 100yds from the canal route.
Throughout this section, the canal passes through the rear of factory grounds, and it is not possible to survey completely.
They were growing on land owned by the Purefoy family of Shalstone Manor, which, as John Day so helpfully pointed out was '3 miles from the Grand Junction Canal' via an 'excellent turnpike road'.
Birmingham Corporation Double Decker Omnibus at California on the way to a then very rural Bartley Green (the stagnant green water was at the bottom of claypits immediately to the west of Lapal tunnel, which had fallen in around 1918), and watching horse drawn rubbish boats from the top of a No.
On the south side of the bridge, a 4' pipe crosses the line at road deck level.
On the north west side of the canal at this point, after the council houses of Mount Hill Avenue, was a small rectangular field, which the village team used as a cricket field for a couple of seasons after they were thrown out of the Black Horse field at the top of the village.
On the morning of March 30th, we set sail from Pennylands, cruising sedately in a northerly direction to meet the rest of the gang at Giffard Park.
A hundred yards or so before the turn, there's this narrow place - I was riding as mate on the motor, and stepped off in the narrows to go and open the bridge.
As the major junction of the A5 and A422 from Northampton to Oxford, Old Stratford was very busy place before the opening of the M1.
There was certainly a short arm and I seem to recall a building made out of corrugated steel sheet and painted black near it, although whether it was a wharf or not I would not like to guess.
Now the butty's following on a long line - comes into the turn, sees the motor up the bank - nowhere to go except alongside the motor, straight into the copings, bang!
The Grand Junction Canal Company's branch navigation from Cosgrove to the market town of Buckingham in fact consisted of two distinct arms - distinct not only in their original conception by the planners of the Canal, but also in their acceptance by Parliament, and even in their physical construction.
The canal ran along a low embankment that gradually increased in height as it crossed Dogsmouth Brook.
Any future development of the canal should consider opportunities to retain this habitat type within the survey site.
Following the footpath from the board the cottage by Lock 1 is still standing although the site of the lock chamber is now part of the front garden.
The towpath at this point climbed up a ramp to join the A5 on top of the bridge.
Now a new curved tunnel takes the canal beneath the new road into the new 19'6' Tuel Lane Lock, which is the deepest in the country.
Condition of Towpath/Footpath From Bridge 25 to River Section: It appears towpath has been diverted around the planted area, footpath clear.
He finally decided on a complete channel for just over 80ft above the Thomas work, plus another slightly longer section on the valley (towpath) side only.
We journeyed back to Marple Junction and the well-loved and beautiful Macclesfield Canal.
Wall alongside east bank.
At the top we went straight on to Whaley Bridge, the terminus of the Peak Forest Canal.
We have now cleared the whole section of canal at Buckingham down to the Lock Cottage so while we sort out the arrangements for the next step - which will be to re-build the spillweir - the work parties have now moved back to Cosgrove.
The final building on the ever narrowing strip of land between the canal and the Deanshanger Road was Millward Bros.
The purpose of this appears to provide a footpath from one side of the canal to the other.
The approximate course of selected modern day major roads is shown by a Red dotted line.
But by this time it was already too late; the damage had been done, the Buckingham end of the Arm was in poor repair, and the lost traffic could not be regained.
During the late 1980s, the hedges and trees were removed to create a large field and the line totally destroyed.
The fact was not only noted by skaters from miles around but also by the owners of Cosgrove Hall who in some date around 1840 built an 'ice house' half way between the canal and the Hall.
Now a fixed low level wooden bridge carrying a public footpath across the canal.
We have included letters to Mr Milner of the Grand Junction Canal company at Blisworth, from firms that were based along the canal from Cosgrove to Buckingham.
Within The Wharf area, accessible to public.
This was the Uncle Philip who collected mysterious parcels from the boats and avoided returning through Buckingham town, crossing the fields and going by the old sewerage works to get home with the mysterious parcels, the contents of which Jack never did discover.
A small planted area of young trees has been made on the line of the canal.
Condition of Towpath/Footpath Towpath on the southern/eastern bank of canal.
The site is owned by BBOWT (Berks, Bucks, Oxon Wildlife Trust) and is part of a Nature Reserve.
GJ responsibility ended at Thorpe's Wharf at the northern end of town where the Stratford Road came closest ot the canal.
The line of the canal can still be discerned between Deanshanger Road and Willow Grove as a slightly raised hump and beneath this the remains of two old narrow boats still might lie.
Shown on 1900 map as a direct connection between river and canal.
We have also been requested to help at the BBOWT resevoir and site of Hyde Lane lock to clear the footpath and area around the lock and swing bridge.
This diversion passes through a number of small paddocks (with horses in ) and uses a number of new stiles.
This branch of the Canal, 91/4 miles in length, has been completed in about eight months, and will secure to an extensive distance of country most substantial benefit.
From Blockage (2) to Bridge 7: The bed of the canal is in excellent condition, and a section of 100-150 yards is in water.
map shows public right of way (as at 1.10.1988) along the towpath south of the A5 Trunk Road to the junction with Hayes Basin.
This pleasantly rural canal currently runs for 24.5 miles to just beyond Worksop.
Better news is that the culvert which carries the Dogsmouth Brook under the canal between Bridge 2 and the A5 is in excellent condition, having been recently inspected and partially rebuilt by BW after last year's floods.
I am writing this report in the last week of February, with just a few more work parties at Cosgrove before we move to our summer site at Buckingham.
The parapets were in good condition, the stone wall on the south eastern side was a bit ruined where people climbed over it to gain access to the towpath, and the towpath went underneath the bridge on the southern side.
The first was the Old Stratford Arm, a level cut of 1 mile 533 yards, applied for and authorised in the original Grand Junction act of 1793: This length was considered important enough for inclusion in the initial Bill because it offered the Canal a link with the old Roman road of Watling Street, at that time still a major highway, with all the traffic-generating potential which that suggests.
This arm lay in the far (eastern) corner of a rectangular field bounded on two sides by the canal and was well overgrown in the 50s.
However just beyond the cottage, the overgrown canal bed is clearly seen and holds water for a while after heavy rain.
Bridge 727353 Wooden bridge at tail of lock carries footpath over the canal.
By the late 60s the Wharf Arm had dried up and we used to walk across it through the reeds.
From here (Cosgrove Junction) he'd take the lightener, as we called it: That was like a big punt, used to be tied up over where the weir is.
The continuing story of the Buckingham Canal in the 1950s - Part 2: from the west side of the present A5
Apart from a small section of the bottom of the top gate, no other parts of the lock mechanism were found.
Comin' to the bridge from Banbury way, there's a right-angle turn just before it - it's a wide turn, but you can't see the bridge 'til the boats come round, and on the offside is the Company's maintenance yard.
Then east straight to Leinbroinn (='the pool of rushes').
The Emigration Commissioners also directed Lieutenant Carew, R.N, agent at this port to proceed at once to the place of the wreck, and that gentleman left this port on Saturday evening.
Map of general distribution of peat stacking sites on the Lizard Peninsula Peat stacking sites - Lizard peninsula Cornwall
It is Loe Bar, a mile along the beach to the south-east from Porthleven harbour, that tends to concentrate most divers' thoughts.
The Lizard is, in fact, a peninsula, whose cliffs support the moorland plateau of Goonhilly Downs, some 300ft above sea level.
For residents living in the Commercial Road area water was obtained from the well and pump situated in Well Lane on the right hand side of the lane just below the Parish Hall.
The Maen Land rocks lie off Dean Quarries and are a reef with four pinnacles.
o) Maen mellin is a rock on the parish boundary near Croft Pascoe Pool where six estates used to meet.
Slack water is the only time to dive, and generally speaking slack water will be later than on the beach.
One source is an underground stream running down Trelyn Lane towards the Reservoir which is also fed by a stream coming down Doctors Hill.
The common field name Park an Butts indicates where the parishioners practised Archery according to the Statute for the Defence of the Realm.
The course was then west.
Bennett* was relieved by a person named Venning who was succeeded by another person named Curry, and you will find the from the time she left Plymouth to the time of her striking the Manacles Rocks, she was steered by five different persons.
Some ford on the stream near Trelease Mill.
In fact, Captain Henry Plough had time to try and beach her after the mine exploded some 2 miles east-by-south of the Manacles.
In the course of the work he came upon several graves situated in a sheltered place on a northern slope of the land near the southern margin of Goonhilly Downs.
By 1840, the ruins of the monastic dwellings had almost disappeared but the mill tenement which remained consisted of Dwelling House, field, two water-mills, and garden, while water was supplied via a leat and three ponds from the Porthoustock stream below the Priory.
After school, other village children would rush down the lane and come to Tregoning.
As you head out of Helston, past the Coronation Park & Boating Lake, towards the fishing village of Porthleven, you'll come to the parkland of the Penrose Estate, which offers some beautiful woodland walks.
On the first Sunday that I was well enough to attend chapel, my parents and I had reached the top of Well Lane when John Thomas went by at a terrific speed on his motor bike.
Evidence of Medieval peat cutting on the downs of the Lizard Peninsula There are, scattered all over the low heath areas of the downs of the Lizard peninsula small rectangular features outlined by low banks of serpentine, clay and small rocks.
Many Spanish silver pieces-of-one real have been found around the shallow rock ledges.
Then the Stop Seine boat came to the rescue and shot her net across the gap.
If he had made such light coming down Channel he should haul up south to clear the Manacles.
Concluding our survey of wreck sites off the Lizard Peninsula, in Cornwall, we look at wrecks along the coastline from Cadgwith to the Helford Estuary, nine miles further north.
The holding around Rosenithon village is still bounded by the granite Trelowarren boundary stones.
Joe Mathews at Chenale had about twenty five acres running down to Godrevy beach.
These rocks probably stood on the downs near Croft Pascoe pool, where the six estates meet).
Some ford on the stream near Trelease Mill.
The words Crowz,'a cross', enters into several field names and place names but only one cross remains, a fine monolith in a field at Trelanvean.
Polcoverack Mill stands at such a height above the Coverack valley that it was necessary to channel water from several sources to collection points, before feeding it along a beautifully finished race of cut stone to the wheel.
land in Gwellan Gwartha Andrea field in Helston and houses in Cross Street and Michael Street.
The ship left at the top of the ebb tide with a favourable wind off the land, and all bid her fare for a prosperous voyage down channel.
A century ago every farm in the parish had its Church way (4) or field path leading toward the church town, but some of these are no longer used.
If he had made such light coming down Channel he should haul up south to clear the Manacles.
The Church town contained a dozen houses in Leland's time(1535), so that the place was already a village, which was not usual among Cornish 'Church- towns' at that date.
When off the Deadman the course was then west.
In its course this dyke is studded by boulders which become more numerous as the coast is neared.
There were four-mast grain ships from Canada and Australia.
One source is an underground stream running down Trelyn Lane towards the Reservoir which is also fed by a stream coming down Doctors Hill.
The above mills, being in good repair, and situated in a very populous and fertile parish.
Thomas gave the prior and monks liberty to divert the water flowing in the moor, and right of way to their mill for horses and packs.
By the time we had reached the shop opposite the Manse, we met the horse and trap bringing Mr.and Mrs. Walford Lambrick to chapel.
The Manor Mill was below the Manor house.
mehal mill Mehall Mill The present building, now a private house, lies on the side of the Porthallow stream opposite to Trembrase, within the estate of Lanarth.
A coast-line of enormous extent, with estuaries which afford safe shelter for ships, and fishing craft, mineral reservoirs, such as no other county in England possesses.
Then on down the little dike to the great dike.
The Lizard Peninsula, Britain's most southerly point on the mainland.
and runs parallel to the stream in a straight line, with no pond, before turning sharp right to the rear of the Mill House.
In its course this dyke is studded by boulders which become more numerous as the coast is neared.
was the year I was born and lived at 39 Taylor Street, ajacent to Thornley Crescent, School Street, Garden Street and John Street.
Shops that spring to mind were Inghams sports on station road, Fords toy shop, and good fish and chip shops, and many others.
We used to stay with grandparents in Mill Road/Lane, their back garden backed onto the river and on the opposite bank was the sugar cane factory.
The narrow lane led through large Horse Chestnut trees on the right (still there) and a high bushy hedge on the left.
I remember the village pond and the walk through the woods, uphill,to school.
I went to Causeway Lake Infants School at the top of Inkerman Street and then when I was seven went to Woden Road Junior School.
I married and moved to Canada but had no contact with his mother or sister who had moved to a retirement cottage near Lancaster Cathedral, Eileen was in Calderstones hospital near Blackburn as she had a disability.
I lived at the bottom of St. Vincent Road, near to Temple Hill Estate and Bow Arrow Lane.
Bagnall's field on the corner of Straight Lane opposite the shops, and the old farm next to the fire station.
Lived in Gladstone Road, went to Pelham School and Merton Rush (on the corner of Dorset/Kingston Road).
Enoch Power sold pet food (Fido Meat) in the arcade next to Tiffany's night club / disco and Wimbledon Theatre.
We lived in Elmcroft Crescent off Headstone Lane and attended the comprehensive school at the boundary connecting George 5th Avenue and the Pinner road.
The aircraft works at Brough provided much of the work and gradually Gilberdyke became a dormitory village servicing Hull and Goole.
This is the York-Jones Ice Creamery viewed from Vines Lane.
I used to play in Mostyn Gardens and John Innes park, near Rutlish school.
My great Grandfather, George frederick Rogers ( c1880 ) owned the Newsagents ( still named Rogers ) on the Preston Road at Preston road station, way back in the 1920's ?
Do you remember a general shop in Hosier Street on the left-hand-side going from St Mary's Butts in the name of F W Hawkins before the civic offices were built?
Also the lanes and allotments beyond King Street leading towards Hickleton pit were a vast area to explore and play.
I remember playing football up on the school field or cross country which you ran to the vicarage at Clayton, down the hill then across the fields, by Stotfold Farm, back to the playing field, then run...
A river with a small pool which was great in the summer.
One heads south on the Oban - Lochgilphead Road, leaving this road at Kilninver, eventually reaching the Clachan Bridge.
Turning left out of Cambridge Road there was a newsagent, a photographers, butchers, shoe shop, a United Dairies dairy- all cool brick red tiles and not much else - and where the road bends to the left, a small sweet shop next...
THE SLATE ISLANDS By Walter Deas Some 24k (15 miles) south and west of Oban lies an area with interesting old villages, megalithic cairns, Iron Age forts, standing stones and castles.
My brothers moved on to the Beverley School in Blakes Lane, Motspur Park.
We used to watch the Veteran Cars go through Redhill on the London to Brighton run every year ( still do )!
We would go to the swings, or the local cinema, the Embassy in Borough Road, MARINA, near riverside school,guinea gap baths,crown bowling green,or the CAPITAL in liscard, loved Central Park, I practically lived in Vic Park Hospital with broken this and that.
William Wright lived in Vine Cottage, Aston, there was a blacksmith shop beside the house, across the road was the orchard with many fruit trees and all the animals.
My late husband worked at Stevenson Mills, next to the Gillette factory.
Attended Redhill Tech College, which was at Gatton Point.
I was born in Morden - christened and went to Sunday School, junior church and youth club at St Lawrence Church at the top of the hill by The George backing on to Morden Park with the bandstand.
This picture named Redhill Hospital 1908 is in fact the porter's lodge at the main entrance.
At that time the no 17 bus used to wind its way through Earsdon village as did the burgundy/chocolate coloured Hunters single decker from Seaton Delaval to Shields.
Weetman's offy opposite Tommy Hartly's tobacco shop.
This photo shows one of the York-Jones delivery vans which would supply ice cream to all the shops around the Midlands, but mostly Birmingham.
The photograph of Bigby Street in the Collection prompted these memories as the building on the near left is the front of the School.
I remember Morden before Crown House existed, when the old Crown pub was on the corner instead.
The Town Hall is at the other end of the building.
I atended Harrow Weald Infants School from 1946, the old building was opposite the bus garage in the high road and was still standing when I was in the area on holiday from Australia in 1989, then I went to Harrow Weald Junior School which was next to the parish church, All Saints.
My memory of the school was a very big entrance, we were allowed to take our roller skates to school and go from the top of the hill to the bottom, also the play bars had concrete underneath and we did acrobatics on them that would definely not be allowed today.
Or catching frogs etc, and making home made carts to pull up 3 Boy Hill at the top of Ouzelwell or Pit Lane at the top of King Edward Street then free wheel down, usually out of control!
I attended the local Pelham County Secondary Boys School which was close by.
The building on the right was Woods, something to do with cars, behind that was waste land till 'Grower' Jones, a kind of home grown veggie shop, then nothing till Big Yard with its pig farm, a builders called H.H.Woods, then about two old cottages, then Hoyland and Garners and an old Anderson shelter, then a big house on the corner of Sandy Lane.
Garfield Road was a long road starting at the balloon factory, passing the primary school and the Rec and ending at the Carton factory.
The opposite parade of shops were a tile shop, a bakers, a hairdressers, the Buffet cafe run by John and Beryl Harris, another sweet shop.
The bus always used to mount the curb on this corner when turning towards the downs and Greenacre school roundabout.
Collecting wood from the fields where the town centre now stands, fruit picking from the cleared lots waiting for development.
It was grim but being young we saw the paved area in the 'front' of the flats as a football stadium and cricket field in the summer...
This little ford and bridge over the silver Darent river was, and still is, my favorite place in England.
later across the road), Midland Bank, Linda Gail, The Dairy...
We did not have a bus station at that time so all buses would park around the town hall.
Then we used to go across the road to the Venetian Cafe,and have a Venetian ice-cream, they were the best ice-creams ever.
On a clear day you can look south past the spire of St Mary's at the top of Harrow-on-the-Hill and all the way to Heathrow Airport and see a succession of aircraft taking off and landing.
Running along its length shooting off at right angles were 5 roads named after poets, starting with Cowper followed by Milton, Dryden, Tennyson and ending with Caxton.
Is the photo H199022 this road and is the wall on left the entrance to the terrace houses?
east to Gano Street exit.
Foster Memorial Park, Located 1/4 mile north on Station Street from intersection of Main Street in Washington village.
From Bangor: Take I-95 South; Exit 130 for Main Street; continue south on Main Street past the strip malls to downtown; trip is 56 miles and takes about an hour.
The hacienda includes walls, arches, exotic plants, gardens, birds breeding place, cattle and orchard.
E87 South from Varna (Bulgaria).
Indian (Alaska) - A little settlement with a restaurant and bed and breakfast, on the side of the Chugach Mountains facing Cook Inlet, 20 miles south of Anchorage on the Seward Highway.
West Sumatra bounded in the north by the province of North Sumatra, in the west by the Indian ocean, in the south by the provinces of Riau province.
The main station, Innsbruck Hauptbahnhof, is located at Sdtiroler Platz (South-tyrolean square) in the east of the city center.
The easiest way to get to Joseph is along highway 82 east from La Grande, Oregon.
Toong Mao Spa Resort, 28 Guanzihling (on summit, 5 min uphill from bus terminal), .
Parque Central is the reference point for east, west, north and south in street addresses.
High speed railway lines in Europe High speed railway lines in Europe A German ICE train A German ICE train
North Holland in the Netherlands.
A distinctive feature is the Esplanade, an avenue of lime trees stretching from west to east, from harbour to harbour.
The main inlet is Lough Swilly which extends 30km inland from the north coast to Letterkenny.
Kumamoto - castle town and hub to central Kyushu * Kagoshima - southern city in the shadow of the Sakurajima volcano * Beppu - One of the most famous hot spring towns in Japan, there are more here than anywhere else in the nation
Trains also run along the coast to Ashford in the east (connecting to cross-channel services) and Portsmouth in the west.
Blackheath is on the Great Western Highway, after Medlow Bath and is quite hard to miss.
Maybe when more articles are developed, we could subdivide South-Limburg into three more regions: Parkstad Limburg, Heuvelland and Western Mine Region.
Located in the Senegal River Delta, this bird sanctuary is home to some 1.5 million birds covering 16,000 hectares and here you will find a wide variety of bird species.
Trains run north to London, and south to Horsham, Haywards Heath and Brighton.
Lansdowne Avenue has many small shops including nail salons, clothing shops, flower shops, dollar stores, convenience stores, gift shops, and other small businesses.
The Seekoei River Nature Reserve, situated on the Seekoei River estuary, is a bird watcher's paradise with hides overlooking the river.
The following highways connect Wilkes-Barre to other regional cities: * I-476 south to (Pennsylvania Turnpike Northeast Extension) Philadelphia.
The Koli National Park lies in the municipalities of Eno, Lieksa and Kontiolahti in North Karelia, on the western shore of Lake Pielinen and covers 3000 hectares.
Despite its very northern location (among the northernmost wine regions in the world), Elbe valley produces excellent white wine.
Grimaldi Lines - Freighter Travel operates a bi-monthly freighter link from Europe to South-America via Africa.
Mosquito Blue is a gorgeously styled upper-range option with meandering pools, a reading library and old world charm to spare.
Outer Hebrides (otherwise known as the Western Isles) off the west coast of Scotland.
The polar region exhibition hall takes you to the romantic world of ice and snow, and hope you will have a good time with the cute polar bear and penguin.
Living and travelling costs in Israel are almost on a par with Western Europe, North America and Australia, making it by far the most 'expensive' country in the Middle East region outside the Gulf area.
Pat Mayse State Park is about 12 miles north on US 271, offering boating, swimming, fishing, and hiking opportunities.
Enter the area only after high and prior to low tide, and return shortly after low tide, i.e. as soon as the water starts to return and the high tide sets in.
A short 20 minute drive south on State Highway 1 from Picton which is the home of the terminal for the inter-island ferry service from Wellington.
Be guest in a gliding plane - Flugplatz Haxterhohe on a hill south to the city
From Frankston Buses run to Portsea, the most western settlement on the Peninsula - 90 minutes and Mount Martha, Flinders and Hastings.
Bird Island - An island located at the north-west tip of South Georgia on which long-term research by the British Antarctic Survey is ongoing.
Bank Street Lodge good quality hostel accommodation in the town centre.
Tioga-Hammond Lakes: The Tioga-Hammond Lakes are located on Route 15 12 miles north of Wellsboro.
I-84 East from Boise, Idaho and Oregon I-84 west from Twin falls, Idaho Highway 20 coming down from the north near Sun Valley Highway 51 Coming from Elko, Nevada Highway 67 coming from Mountain Home AFB and Grandview, Idaho
Mornington Peninsula National Park runs from Pt Nepean to Cape Schanck.
Tampa's Greyhound station is at 610 Polk Street in downtown Tampa.
The Riverina is an inland region in the south of New South Wales, Australia.
Connecting Lower Manhattan to Downtown Brooklyn, the Brooklyn Bridge offers fantastic views of the Manhattan and Brooklyn skylines.
city hall at canal city hall at canal
The island is surrounded by high sea cliffs, rocks and tidal pools.
Dutch Springs is an water/adventure park located on a 50-acre lake.
Harkness Park - This park contains 4 tennis courts and is the home of Blind Brook Tennis.
On the left, past Broome Community College.
The price level is lower than in Western Europe, however imported goods of international brands like cost roughly the same as everywhere else.
At a sharp left, turn right into the parking lot for the Lake Wintergreen area.
There are many small shops along Lansdowne Avenue including nail salons, clothing shops, flower shops, dollar stores, convenience stores, gift shops, and other small businesses.
Coolangatta and Rainbow Bay face north.
Burns is a city in Eastern Oregon region of Oregon.
Street view near Parque Colon Street view near Parque Colon
You can also organise longer 2 or three days trips either north to Kande beach or over to Chisumulu Island.
International bus service runs from many cities in Europe with direct connections from Netherlands, Austria etc. Good service is offered by Eurolines .
Located in Arroyo Square near the Cathedral.
Traws-Cambria cross-Wales services converge at Wrexham in the north-east.
Mountain bike the various river and road trails, including the Wither Hills Bike Park (Wither Hills Bike Park), .
Steps to the beach in one of the safest cities in South Florida,public tennis and basketball courts,and access to sport fishing.
The Eastside lies east of the downtown area along the north bank of the Susquehanna River.
The traditional 'main street' area includes a movie theatre, coffee shops, hairstylists, video rentals, drug stores, and much more.
Hot summers and cold winters; areas of high elevation have short, cool summers and long, severe winters; mild, rainy winters along coast
Interstate 95 (Maine Turnpike) passes through town.
Everywhere floods - meadows, fields, forests, roads and sometimes even houses.
High-speed trains stop only at Midi/Zuid, except the ICE also stops at Nord/Noord.
Dominated by Mount Snowdon, Snowdonia National Park is to Wales what the Lake District is to England.
Traverses through forest, reaches an Alpine Lake.
Batangas - the International Port in South Luzon, beaches, dive-sites, resorts, heritage sites.
Kaatsen is a sport dating to the middle ages, still being practised in Friesland, the Basque_Country, and parts of southern France.
Pole Pole, 2-31-31 Kata-machi (Walk to where 157 (main street) meets water and head right on small street.
It stops at major bus stops only, including the Queensgate (Lower Hutt) bus interchange and travels through Lower Hutt to Upper Hutt on a limited timetable.
Routes through Bethel
Its water, water and water everywhere, with few narrow of strip of land in-between with huge coconut trees guarding, with its palms swaying in wind.
Tourists to Leeds have access to two world heritage sites, several national museums, three national parks, York, Harrogate and Skipton.
So that article pretty much exists, except that the districts are Sydney/ names and it sounds like you'd prefer Inner West (Sydney) to Balmain (a suburb in the Inner West) rather than Sydney/Balmain.
Alta Vila Tower - Located in the district of Nova Lima, (Belo Horizonte city Metro area), this tower offers a spectacular view of Belo Horizonte and its surrounding mountains.
It stops at major bus stops only, including the Queensgate (Lower Hutt) bus interchange and travels as far as Upper Hutt Station.
With a playground for children, tennis court, mini golf, water sports (canoe, sailing), situated at the cycle track Linz-Stey - Ennstal-Steyrtal.
The Decatur Square plaza located above the MARTA station.
From Kaikoura, the inland route through to Hanmer Springs is off the usual tourist trail and rewards the traveller with mountain views and a soak in the hot springs.
Great place to see natural Florida's grasslands, woodlands, mangrove forest, and swamp.
The exterior architecture of Mill Houses Suites in complete harmony with the geological peculiarities of the landscape.
Left to Front Street, left at East Clinton Street, go over bridge, right at 1st light onto Water Street.
An 11.7 million square meters nature reserve located next to the coast, dividing the East and South parts of the city, and famous for its sandy dunes.
Three destinations from different continents are designated each month, with each continent featured bi-monthly in the format Month A: North America, Africa, Asia; Month B: South America, Europe, Australia/Island Nations.
It includes a strip of forest running north-south between Blanca Street and Alison Street, immediately to the west of UBC campus.
The city is reasonably well connected by city buses, the Charlottesville Area Transit (CAT).
The Bristol Channel is a tidal estuary on the South West of Britain.
This beautiful oasis is home to herds of free roaming plains bison, wood bison, moose, deer, and elk.
Astoria - This Queens neighborhood, 25 minutes from Times Square on the N/Q trains, is home to Queens' Bohemian Hall Beer Garden, near the Astoria Boulevard subway stop.
The West Bank is a territory under Israeli occupation with areas of Palestinian Autonomous Control (Area A and B) and Israeli military/civilian settlement (Area C) in the Middle East between Dead Sea.
Loose gravel - On rural highways often a layer of loose gravel or road grit left over from winter on the edges of the road.
Harbour gates in Rhodes city Harbour gates in Rhodes city
There are plenty of horse trails offering horseback rides at the shores of the sea, up rivers and on game reserve trails.
A very good localisation, on the border if the Old Town and the city centre, many good restaurants, shops, service points just next to the hotel.
The lodge terrace has stunning views of the Rift Valley and hiking trails start right from the doorstep.
From Anchorage, the highway goes in two directions, either south to the Kenai Peninsula or north to the MatSu Valley (Palmer and Wasilla), where the road splits into either the Parks Highway (Denali, Fairbanks) or the Glenn Highway (Glennallen, Canada).
The economy was mostly agricultural-based with fruit orchards crisscrossed by canals.
At Tumwater you can transfer from Intercity Transit buses coming from Olympia.
Bartow is a historic, Southern town in Florida.
Vermont Transit Lines - Waterville is on the Boston-Bangor line.
If you travel downstream the Amazon river to the East to get Colombia and Brazil.
Brighton Seminole Indian Reservation is an Indian reservation in northeast Florida, near the northwest shore of Lake Okeechobee.
They live often close to streams, rivers, ponds as well as along open camp sites surrounded by high grass and thicket.
Middelburg (Belgium) - A village near Maldegem, Belgium.
Take a left onto Crown Point Highway.
Lowell Heritage State Park, One Jackson Street (Off Canal Street), ?
Since the residential area around this beach is occupied predominantly by young professionals working in the IT/ITES industries (that thrive in the area), this beach has turned into a hot-spot for them.
Continue downhill and turn left on the main road to town.
The Grafton Centre has all the usual high-street shops in a mall and surrounding streets.
Walk to South West coast of the island to the beach at Camas Cuil an t-Saimh.
A brand-new small mall located in the city.
The downtown area is located along a 10-block area of Independence Street, between Market Street and Shamokin Street.
Gulf Beaches - Beautiful sandy beaches from Fort DeSoto Beach to Clearwater.
It's bounded by North Avenue to the north, the Chicago River to the west and south, and Lake Michigan to the east.
Coming from Milwaukee take I-43 North, exit Highway 32 North just after the Grafton Exit.
The 750,000-acre, 1,200 square-mile park contains thousands of lakes and ponds, 1600 miles of streams, 800 miles of hiking trails, and 350 miles of roads.
A favorite of campers, Lovells has trails that pass by dunes and woods, picnic areas, and a supervised swimming beach.
Watch out for tides: at low tide, the waters pull back to reveal vast mud flats.
Taco John's, 14 East Railroad Street, adjacent to Glacier Cinema, (406) 873-2592.
Casablanca Casino: Within walking distance from Grace Bay Club.
It is also quite possible to take the meandering inland roads from Fayence.
Crystal, elegant, modern restaurant in Citrom street opposite post office; small interior yard in good weather.
Take the Boonah-Fassifern Rd west to meet the Cunningham Highway and turn left to the south.
This is an Indian, Mediterranean and Middle Eastern restaurant in Heredia, Costa Rica just about 15 minutes drive from the airport.
Grand Parade An art gallery located in Brightons most central university campus.
Eastern Alberta would cover off the area east of Central Alberta, Edmonton Capital Region and Peace River Valley, north of Alberta Badlands, west of SK and south of the NWT.
Binghamton Farmers Market, Collier Street (next to county courthouse), ?
The pounding surf and rocks make swimming at the island rather suicidal but many people walk across the exposed rocks, exploring the tidal pools and crab pots.
In the east, the La Mosquita region is a huge area of remote lowland jungle, including the UNESCO world-heritage site Rio Platano Biosphere Reserve.
Turn right onto Summer Street and, at major intersection with Rockland Street, continue straight across.
Drive north from I-57 Exit 308, South Schuyler Avenue; or drive west from I-57 Exit 312 Court Street, then left into South Schuyler Avenue.
At Concrete, a US Forest Service Spur leads to Baker Lake, just east of Mount Baker.
Street 9-42, zone 1 (Half block NE from Central Park), ?
The airport in Yonago, to the east just across the prefectural boundary, is the nearest airport and has a flight to Seoul.
Trujillo's colonial centre.
The Yasawa Islands are a group of islands in north-western Fiji.
Bicycle along Farmington Canal, or shoreline bike routes.
Go past Sakonnet Bay Manor and the Villages will be on your left hand side right at the bend in the road.
Luxury bed and breakfast inside a coffee plantation, near Santo Domingo convent and museum, 40 min from the Guatemala City airport.
Driving from Cirencester, follow the A429 (the Fosseway) North, pass through Bourton-on-the-Water and you'll reach it (after another 5km).
Alfred B. Maclay Gardens State Park has at its heart the winter home and gardens of Maclay and his wife Louise.
The town of Huntington on Main Street off of 25A has many restaurants, bars, ice cream shops, and movie theaters, including the indie Cinema Arts Centre.
They have stables for people trail riding on the parks 86 miles of bridle trails.
Holiday Beach, (follow Binhai Xilu out of the city to the west until after Xixiu Beach and , bus no 40 (2) or a taxi (around 50)).
Further to the south, Tuscany in Italy is famous for its La Rioja is arguably the most popular, and certainly among the best, Spanish wine regions.
Now operated by the National Trust, the area includes the Museum, Tourist Railway, Sweets Shop, Family Resource Centre and much more.
The southern portion of the Blackstone Valley National Corridor is encompassed by Providence County.
Cowan is oriented around the junction of Tennessee Highway 41 and the CSX railroad heading toward Decherd.
Buses leave from Inter-City terminal, near downtown Lusaka.
It accomodates pleasure vessels throughout many marinas and tidal harbours from Sharpness in the East on the South side Milford Haven in the West to Wales.
Murchison Falls where the Nile River passes through a narrow cleft in the rocks and crashes over a 30 m precipice
These parks include walking and bicycle trails, a fountain park, three public beaches and free parking.
Winter Weather- In this area of Georgia winter weather can cause lots of problems.
Amaroo Water Gardens: Bed and Breakfast, Bevan Road, Hope Forest (Take the Victor Harbor road and continue past the McLaren Vale turn off.
Go east on the left after Derby Lane), ?
Arlington County owns a very large pay parking facility attached to the Ballston Common Mall .
See also the itinerary Russia to Japan via Sakhalin for more information on the northern connection between the Trans Siberian railway and Japan
City Area Administration Palace is situated just across the street from the Croatian National Theatre, quite near the main city square.
Negev Desert covering much of the south of Israel, including Ramon Crater.
Fontana Maggiore and Cathedral at Perugia Fontana Maggiore and Cathedral at Perugia
Its boundaries would be the previously defined borders for Southern Alberta to the south, Alberta Rockies in the west, Alberta Badlands to the east and Hwys 72, 574 and 579 to the north.
From Portland, take Highway 26 west to the Hillsboro exit at Cornell Road, and follow the road signs to downtown Hillsboro.
The Downtown Mall, Main Street between McIntire Rd.
The local vegetation is chiefly made up of forests of Aleppo Pines, Kermes Oaks, a small forest of Holm Oaks, fruit trees and olive groves.
There is a Greyhound bus station located at 1780 Martion Luther King Jr.
Popular streets running through the city are Wanamaker, Topeka Boulevard, 21st Street and 6th Street (6th Street turns into Highway 40).
Continue further south to Cabarita, Hastings Point and Pottsville, all very nice ocean front townships with surf beaches.
Once used as a R&R hospital during World War II, this high-scale resort offers boutiques, an ice-cream shop, and beautiful beach access along Gulf Blvd.
If you're looking for something a little more modern, the recently constructed Sherman Town Center on Highway 75 South between Loy Lake Road and U.S. Highway 82 offers shoppers many options, from Old Navy and Target to Pier One Imports and Bed Bath and Beyond.
16th street station in 2007 located in West Oakland 16th street station in 2007 located in West Oakland * 16th Street Station, viewable at 16th and Wood in West Oakland.
Punta Carretas Shopping Mall - A large shopping mall located in a former prison.
Trail begins at right with ramps to path running on bridge alongside highway.
Matsalu National Park includes Matsalu Bay and the delta area of the Kasari River together with surrounding flooded meadows, coastal meadows, reed beds and forests.
Hamelin (German: Hameln) is a town in Lower Saxony, south west of Hanover.
Kenton-on-Sea - This tranquil coastal town lies between the Kariega and Bushman's River.
Mesquite is a delightful little resort on the Nevada-Arizona border near Utah.
The district includes several major shopping streets, including Bond Street, Regent Street, Jermyn Street and much of Oxford Street.
It is not easy to find parking around the University area, including the Corner and between 14th Street and Rugby Road.
Ride the Cuyahoga Valley Scenic Railroad , stations are in Independence, Peninsula and Akron.
The Golden Crown hotel is situated at the southern entrance to Nazareth, alongside the Mount of Precipice and overlooking the marvelous landscapes of the picturesque Jezreel Valley.
County Parks, state parks, and Fish & Wildlife Areas in this region contain such habitats, as well as natural meadows, old-growth pine forests, wetlands, and several opportunities to view migratory birds from around the hemisphere.
Eight years after his death, the church was rebuilt again, this time facing the west towards the long white-sand beach on the shores of the Arabian Sea.
The boat service leaves from the back of the island (near the caves and rock pools).
Many boat rides on Switzerland's lakes are free as well.
Outside Pennsylvania: Sedona, Arizona; South Carolina; Chincoteague Island, Williamsburg, Virginia; Vermont; Atlanta Braves Spring Training, Disney World, Florida as well.
Home Slice Pizza, Lower Main Street at the intersection of Railroad Street, Phone: +1 207-824-4700.
National Parks and Wildlife reserves include the Althorpe Islands group, Innes National Park, and Carribie, Leven Beach, Point Davenport, Warrenben, Troubridge Island and Wills Creek Conservation Parks.
Shopping areas are mainly centred on Tres Cruces Avenue, Santa Clara Street and parallel-running San Torcuato.
The Great Western main railway line passes through the county affording easy access to Pembrokeshire in the west and London in the east.
Traws-Cambria cross-Wales services converge at Wrexham in the north-east and Brecon or Aberystwyth) in the south.
Three are part of the state highway system, and these all lie on the western bank of the Hutt River, with the third, Eastern Hutt Road, connecting Lower Hutt to Upper Hutt via Stokes Valley..
Another great bird-watching area, this refuge is home to a migratory stop for shorebirds making the 15,000 mile flight from Argentina to the Arctic Circle.
Coming from Sheboygan take I-43 South, exit Highway 32 South near the Allen-Edmonds Shoe Store.
It may sound counterintuitive, but you should leave the mobile home and get in a ditch, culvert, or drain pipe, low to the ground.
Staten Island lies to the south west, across Upper New York Bay.
The winding Cuyahoga-the 'Crooked River'-was named by Mohawk (Native American tribe)-gives way to rolling floodplain, steep valley walls and ravines, and lush upland forests.
On Boulder Highway toward Henderson.
Northern Ontario This area is home to the Canadian Shield with extensive forests and isolated communities.
St Francis Bay is a beach village of Cape Dutch style thatched roof houses build on canals in the Kromme River estuary.
Highway 307 is the only highway that passes by Playa.
This insect garden is split in four main sections.
From Mexico City, take the Mexico-Veracruz highway.
Sacred Valley, (Valle Sagrado), Includes the towns/ruins of Chinchero, Ollantaytambo and Pisac.
It crosses the famous 21 arch Glenfinnan viaduct and stops at the village of Glenfinnan where Bonnie Prince Charlie raised his standard in 1745.
Sanya's bus station is along Jie Fang Lu (???
Novo Mesto) The region around the Krka and lower Sava Rivers.
Some areas are lower, and Priele (creek-like arms or canals of water) can well flood very early, cutting you off from land.
The Painted Monasteries are in the southern Bucovina, in northern Romania.
That's why in the summer many flights go from northern to southern Europe as northerners flee the rain and possible lower than average temperatures.
Visitors who go to the Far North to sample the Indian or Southeast Asian food might well be interested in going to Chinatown, even though it's on the other side of the city.
Plenty of parking is available downtown, apart from strict parking bans which go into effect for Hope Street and surrounding streets the night before.
Roseville, Michigan is a city in Macomb County and is surrounded by Clinton Township to the north, Eastpointe to the south.
May Market You know it's Spring when the Monticello Main Street May Home & Garden Market is around the corner!
A heavy industry area but contains Qianshan National Park and other major tourist sites.
Seven Sister Waterfalls is a group of 7 Waterfalls close to the Grand Etang Nature Reserve in St. Andrew * Honeymoon Waterfall is secluded in the rain forest close to the Seven Sister Waterfalls.
Farmer's Market On North State Street, join Monticello's Main Street Farmer's Market featuring many of your favorite vendors selling seasonal fruits, vegetables, plants, flowers, breads, and more.
The path heads steadily uphill, a couple of small zig-zags, then curves left at a cleft in the hill before levelling out at what is known as the Halfway Lochan.
Fish Croatia, Offers a range of fishing experiences, including island-hopping cruises on the Adriatic and fly-fishing in well-stocked river valleys.
Easy transport to and from airport, Grand Anse Beach, waterfall and more.
Foley Estates Vineyard & Winery - 805-688-8554, moving west of Hwy.
MARC commuter-rail train operate between BWI Rail Station and Union Station, also stopping at the New Carrolton Metro Station (Orange Line).
Intercity bus service is available out of downtown Binghamton via Greyhound (with destinations including Syracuse, Albany, Rochester, Scranton, Toronto, Washington, D.C., and New York City.
Highway Chipiona, Jerez A-480 - This is the highway that connects the Jerez area with the Northwest Coast, towns like Chipiona, Sanlucar ...
The closest train stop is on the Marc Light Rail Camden Line at Riverdale.
Cliff diving is available from a sturdy concrete slab perched high atop the sea cliffs, higher than before.
As does the War Memorial on a marble plaza right above the river boat terminal, with it's seven giant granite heads looking towards an eternal flame.
From Philadelphia: Take I-476 (toll) to 'Lehigh Valley Exit' to US-22 East, to PA-378 South.
Ruins of Roman-built city walls, including a re-built arch gate, can be seen just off the road from Malatya.
The Negev desert surrounds Eilat and its scenic Eilat Mountains Nature Reserve has some of the most spectacular desert routes in Israel.
The New Art Gallery Walsall, Gallery Square (Parking at nearby Crown Wharf retail park, max.
The metropolitan areas of Tel Aviv form very much their own regions; from north to south, however, Israel's regions are as follows: Regions of Israel Regions of Israel Galilee This region can be divided into the Upper Galilee and Lower Galilee hill ranges, as well as the Sea of Galilee.
Cuenca lies on the Pan-American highway.
Matterhorn Swiss Village: Located on the south side of the lake.
Bozar Theatre is oriented towards avant-garde theatre.
Hocking Hills Farmer's Market (hocking hills Flea market), outside Logan, OH (Route 33 between Logan and Rockbridge, Hocking County).
This five star hotel is in the Osaka Business Park near Osaka Castle.
Kingscliff This coastal town is at the next headland south of Fingal head, about 6km further.
Sydney (city)/Haymarket: the Chinatown district # Sydney (city)/Darling Harbour: district covering Darling Harbour/Pyrmont # Sydney (city)/Ultimo: district covering the Ultimo/Chippendale area # Sydney (city)/Darlinghurst: district covering Darlinghurst # Sydney (city)/Woolloomooloo: district covering Potts Point and Elizabeth Bay o North Sydney city page referring to the area covered by the North Sydney council North (Sydney) by the way, the name of the city really is North Sydney o Mosman city page o Manly city page o Willoughby city page: it's unfortunately they use that name, this area is far better known as the Lower North Shore o Lane Cove city page o Woollahra city page o Waverly city page # Waverly/Bondi district page &lt;ScTRUNC
Southwest Bulgaria is in Bulgaria.
The downtown business center of the city is on the north shore of Hillsborough Bay (a small bay within Tampa Bay which is bordered by the eastern shore of Tampa Bay and the small peninsula of South Tampa) and Ybor City lies just to the east.
Historic towns such as a Beverly Shores occasionally dot the lakeshore, along with the remains of the once-giant steel industry near Gary.
Lagoinha Station is near the rodoviaria (bus station), Gameleira Station is near the ExpoMinas Convention Center and Minas Shopping Station is near the Mall of the same name and Ouro Minas Palace Hotel.
It also has a very lively, interesting downtown shopping area called Bearskin Neck, where many tourists and locals come to experience the small village of shops located only feet above the ocean.
Tilgate Park is situated on the south side of the town and is a large area with lakes, grassy areas and woodlands, with plenty of pleasant walks.
This area contains a few of Bethlehem's early buildings, like the 1761 Tannery, 1762 Waterworks (a National Historic Landmark), the 1869 Luckenbach Mill, and the Miller's House Garden (an 1870 Victorian garden).
Other Chinatown garages are the Golden Gateway at 250 Clay Street, North Beach at 755 Vallejo Street, and St. Mary's Square at 433 Kearny Street.
Dili - Dili National Hospital, located in Bidau Santana.
George W. Bush Avenue leads from the airport to downtown Tbilisi.
The main access roads to Umbrian towns from the A1 are at Orte, if coming from Rome, and taking the Siena-Perugia highway if arriving from Florence.
The Vasco da Gama Bridge is the longest bridge in Europe, linking Almada.
The main tourist area is around Tumon Bay, which has a number of high-rise hotels and resorts similar to Waikiki Beach.
Awesome service, wifi, laundry service, safe lockers, and a good location near all the buzz of Cartagena city life!
Lake 'Bubanj Park' - only one kilometer away from the strict city center, the lake is situated at the entrance of the city, from the direction of highway E-75.
Athabasca is a city in Athabasca County, Alberta, Canada.
Great Western Highway, just up the crest from the main village centre.
The mid-city area (generally bordered by Massachusetts Avenue to the south, Columbia Road to the north, Connecticut Avenue to the west, and Georgia Avenue/7th Street to the east) features many quiet streets lined with bicycle lanes.
From the north, Urana Morundah Road branches off the Newell Highway (HWY 39) and meets Urana Corowa Road in the center of the town.
Once headquarters of the Rancho San Antonio Spanish land grant, this six-acre park contains the 1870 Antonio Peralta House and interpretive exhibits, a native plant garden, and changing exhibits on history and culture.
National Landmark Healy Hall rising above the Car Barn, a former trolley car depot, across the Key Bridge National Landmark Healy Hall rising above the Car Barn, a former trolley car depot, across the Key Bridge
Barbara Rosa's Restaurant, 95 Calle Escudero (near Airport,along the main road heading west out of Dewey), ?
Shopping center Syke is located just opposite of Liike.
Street Parking is available on the streets of Downtown Bristol and it is conveniently free.
Yardley Country Club- The local golf club features a huge landscape which includes lakes and streams throughout the course.
The second largest of the London Royal Parks, covering an area of 450 hectares (1,099 acres).
19th century restaurant on Tettye Hill with large interior and beer garden.
Some buses travel via Jackson Street in Petone and via the Queensgate (Lower Hutt) bus interchange.
Spanish enclave bordering Morocco * Melilla - Spanish enclave bordering Morocco
Moorooduc Quarry Flora & Fauna Park features a large lake surrounded by towering cliffs and is located near Moorooduc Railway Station.
Between Sharps beach, and Angel's Beach is Flat Rock, a large rocky outcrop into the sea.
The trail narrows after crossing Highway 56, making it too narrow for automobiles, but four-wheelers can navigate it as well as many side roads.
There is a wealth of good quality climbs in the county from granite rocks in the south to the quartzite and dolerite-based landscape in the north.
Small family hotel in the heart of playa del carmen,4 blocks off the beach.
Coral Bay is small village in Western Australia, renowned for Ningaloo reef, Australia's only fringing reef.
Platbos * Tsitsikamma National Park: encloses one of the most beautiful coasts in South Africa between Storms River and Nature's Valley.
The MR3 highway connects Manzini with South Africa, but due to the central position of the city, nearly all roads lead to it.
This place if famous for its panoramic view as well as hill fruit mart, which was established in 1912.
Westport's Historic Grays Harbor Lighthouse, 1020 West Ocean Avenue , Located in Westport, 15 Miles West of Aberdeen, ?
A fine seven arch granite bridge, a beautiful lock gate at Tinnahinch, Graving docks and a long stone quay by the river.
Both Richmond-upon-Thames and Kew are located (largely) south of the Thames in the western quadrant of the city.
The Harau Valley is a pretty gorge about an hour east of Bukittinggi comprising a valley floor of rice paddy hemmed in by shear sandstone cliffs.
All top ten peaks lie in Alaska.
After the deep pool the water level gradually levels off to a nice rocky sand bar that is above the water level during the summer months.
Weisensee - the highest-altitude swimming lake in the Alps (930m above sea level) with crystal clear water, beautifully situated in a fjord-like valley.
Sitting as it does in a remote corner of Britain's only coastal national park, Lawrenny naturally has poor transport links.
Balcony Wine Bar, Spetses Town, (just east of the main Dapia harbor on the sea road, though the entrance is from the parallel shopping lane one street inland).
Specific AC Transit Transbay bus routes run between San Francisco's Transbay Terminal and different parts of Oakland.
Flint - Edward I's first castle in Wales, in the far north-east close to the English border in Flintshire.
The island is split east/west by a canal that you can kayak through; kayaks can be rented from Coral View Hotel near the southern canal entrance or from several dive shops.
There is a free car-park at the bottom end of town, and car-parking on the streets- but be careful- parking in some areas is limited to 2 hours, though this is clearly marked.
The Verdon Gorge (French: Les Gorges du Verdon) is an awe-inspiring canyon in the Alpes-de-Haute-France.
I-75 continues north across the Mackinac Bridge to Michigan's Sault Ste.
Louis Metro East (Illinois) - an area of Illinois near St. Louis, Missouri.
Raja Ampat is the place where coral species reach 75% of all known species and fish nearly 1,300 species.
More than 100 concerts take place in Viljandi castle's ruins, churches, and other venues throughout Viljandi County.
Another standout museum is the Transit Museum located in an abandoned station in Downtown Brooklyn.
Also the are numerous tourist boats which travel up the Douro river, where you can get fantastic views of the green landscape the region has to offer.
The Eastern Hutt Road provides an alternative route between Lower Hutt and Upper Hutt via Stokes Valley.
Nice bar and terrace next to the Casino Maritim of Mahon.
Beneath the south approach to the bridge is a station for the light rail system (see 'By Metro' below) that goes to Oporto.
The lower Tarren range of hills between Tywyn and Abergynolwyn provide excellent walking, without the crowds that can sometimes be found on Cadair Idris.
Buenos Aires is Argentina's international gateway and easily accessible from North America, Europe, and Australasia, as well as other capital cities in South America.
Marcella Nord - A tiny quaint restaurant just off main street near the river.
Kinlochbervie is a small town in Sutherland, northwestern Scotland.
The far bus station (Gare Routiere) is located in some distance to the west of the Medina at the Souk El Ahad ('Camel Market') - the City bus station is located next to the Medina in the town center).
Mary's Church St. Mary's Church * St. Mary's Church, situated in the fort, is one of the oldest surviving churches built by the British in India.
Ontario is bordered by the province of Great Lakes region (New York) of the Manitoba to the west and by Hudson and James Bays to the north.
The narrow-gauge Ffestiniog Railway connects the Cambrian Coast line at Blaenau Ffestiniog * Another narrow gauge line, the Welsh Highland Railway will shortly re-open, connecting Caernarfon via Beddgelert
Good location, near Brussels North Station, quick access to all train stations via metro and airport.
The three aforementioned bars are all located in the same inlet off of State Street, and also just south of the Pearl Street exit from I55.
Desert Hiking, 4x4 jeep tours and camel treks are major attractions in this area of the Negev desert.
Pass-holders can travel between the following cities: Marseille, Montpellier, Brussels, Perpignan, Dublin, Stockholm, Stuttgart, Toulouse, Lille, Zurich
Figueira da Foz ,a panoramic city at the mouth of Mongedo;beach/Costa de Prata,casino.
Panmunjeom - the truce village in the DMZ between North and South * Deokjeok Island - an island south-west of Incheon Metropolitan City * Gapyeong County - a county known for its natural beauty, that borders with Ganwon-do on the east.
Maccles Field- A huge sprawling field located off of River road, Maccles Field features four large soccer fields, three pavilions, and a sand volleyball court.
Ponds & Rivers + Androscoggin River (fed by the Rangeley Lakes, passes through Hanover, Rumford, Mexico, Dixfield, Peru and Canton)- Commonly used for fishing, canoeing, kyaking and light boating.
Flatdogs Camp, South Luangwa National Park, Lupande Game Management Area (Follow main road from Mfuwe Airport and follow the signs), .
You will ride along the cliffs, overlooking turquoise waters and olive trees.
The Venetian's sister property located right next door, The Palazzo Resort-Hotel-Casino has an extraordinary 50-floor luxury tower with 3,066 suites, along with a 100,000-square-foot gaming casino, and a 450,000-square-foot meeting and convention facility.
Mornington - The largest of the towns on the Mornington Peninsula, with one long main street leading down to the beach and pier.
Rising in the Border Ranges, it is navigable inland to the bustling alternative town of Murwillumbah, some 30km up river.
As Jena is a student town and a town in the east of Germany, prices are slightly lower than in Western Germany.
Tropicana Inn 'Businessman's hotel' located in the Lagoon, overlooking the Marina and Yacht Club, just a short bus ride away from St.George's and the Grand Anse Beach.
Fine stone bridge linking Brentford/Chiswick with Kew.
The diverse landscape, including sandstone ledges, 70 waterfalls (most notably Brandywine Falls), rolling hills and river gorges, can be viewed from 186 miles of trails.
Immediately after crossing the Monongahela River, both lines stop at Station Square, then proceed into a transit-only tunnel under Mount Washington and come out at the South Hills Junction station on the other side before they split apart into the suburbs south of Pittsburgh.
The city is located in the central hub of southeastern Massachusetts, where most of the region's major roads cross in or near Taunton's center.
Granted that can cover an area over three states, but it does give the storm chasers and weather spotters a good heads up as to where best to locate.
Arlington's main Shopping Districts are Clarendon and Wilson Blvds between the Rosslyn to Ballston Metro Stations, as well as the areas near the Crystal City and Pentagon City Metro Stations.
The most dense parts of the Stockton Street Market stretch from Washington Street north to Broadway Street, filled with BBQ shops, dim sum shops, and other stores.
The valley here is several km width with flat banks of the river and steep surrounding hills.
George Washington crossed the Delaware River on Christmas Eve from Bucks County (Washington's Crossing).
River estuary - near the turnoff to the waterfall is a mangrove-lined estuary.
Tweed Heads and Coolangatta are twin towns located on the border between north-eastern New South Wales and south-eastern Gold Coast City.
Xandari Resort and Spa is home to 21 spacious villas on a 40-acre coffee and fruit plantation overlooking the Central Valley.
About 30 km (18 mi) upward the Elbe River from Dresden this is a mountain area made of sandstone.
St. Louis Area (Missouri) - an area of Missouri near St. Louis.
In summer you can hike along the paths of the Otep Nature Park, see the landscape of rolling hills and lakes, romantic winding village roads and small rivers.
Worlds End is formed by two drumlins which overlook Hingham Bay and has rocky beaches, ledges, cliffs, patches of salt marsh and an area of freshwater marsh.
Traveling from Salisbury at the New Hampshire border southward one passes through the Newburyport, Danvers, Saugus.
It stretches two miles just south of the White House, from the U.S. Capitol Building in the east to the Lincoln Memorial and Potomac River on the west.
Graignamanagh (Irish: Graig na Manach, meaning 'Village of the monks') or Graiguenamanagh is a village in County Kilkenny, near the border with County Carlow.
Abacus Airport Cars Cambridge rides there from 77.00 one way.
Sunny Beach is the largest beach resort in Bulgaria.
Cartagena's cathedral tower, in the old town Cartagena's cathedral tower, in the old town
The Decatur Square gazebo located south of the historic DeKalb County Courthouse.
Whakatane is about half way along this scenic highway, which starts in Auckland and finishes in Hawkes Bay.
Lola Lo, Fisher Square, off Corn Exchange Street.
Located south and east of Manhattan across the East River.
From Dromana it runs through Arthurs Seat State Park, then the Greens Bush and Bushrangers Bay sections of Mornington Peninsula National Park.
This temple is situated south of Jageshwar.
Travelling northwards up the bay, Archipelago Resort looks out to the south of Margaruque Island.
The beach on the windsurfing cove, which lies about 2 km south of village, is connected to village centre by minibuses (dolmu?
Local transit system connecting Tumwater with Olympia.
Collinsville was the center of the largest prehistoric Native American city in the U.S. and one of only 20 UNESCO World Heritage sites in the nation.
There are a number of quarries, logging roads and access roads that can be used with care to find good sites for tenting and RV parking off of the main road.
Main areas to go out: * Yeosu Downtown (????): The busiest area in the city with hundreds of shops, restaurants, bars and clubs.
When surveyor Evans followed the MacPherson range eastwards he was directed to mark the border and terminate it at Point Danger, however the watershed hit the coast at Currumbin headland some distance north.
The bus station is on Main Street.
There are two staging areas, but there are many other good camp sites in the area.
The Know It Express - service between Atlantic Ave-Pacific Street subway station in Brooklyn and Washington DC.
A night club set on the main road which runs parallel to the 7 mile strip.
The J and Z lines, meanwhile, either continue East to Jamacia, or West into Southern Manhattan, via the Williamsburg bridge.
The Bellarine Peninsula forms the western side of the mouth of Port Phillip Bay in Australia.
Apart from this operator there are many other bus companies that link Prague and other cities and towns, even remote villages, regularly.
Turn left onto Greenwood Road.
Currently served by six airlines providing direct service to Houston George Bush Intercontinental, Atlanta, Dallas/Ft.
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (IATA:CLE), PH:(216)-265-6030 Cleveland's main airport, located on the west side of the city.
The entertainment district runs east-west along Las Olas Boulevard.
Natal's bus station is about 3 km southwest of the city center, and some 5 km northwest of the Ponta Negra beach.
Only Kings hostel, near Bala cover the southern or eastern areas of the park.
This fine example of 15th-Century English Perpendicular architecture is on the market square opposite King's College.
Europe encompasses an area of 10,180,000 km (3,930,000 square miles), stretching from Asia to the Atlantic, and from Africa to the Arctic.
Goransko lake-beautiful place 7 km from Doboj with good touristic offer: camping place, swimming, grill places, banches, natural creak, parking, restoran, children playground...
On the southern section (from Sorek interchange to Ma'ahaz interchange) is free of charge.
Pen y Cae is a village in the Upper Swansea Valley, Wales.
The town with the dam is further north and in a more remote part of the state.
Fighting 69th Monument, Ballymote Park, Sligo Road (R294) (on the entrance into Ballymote from Sligo (R294 road)).
The AONB is predominantly a coastal designation, covering most of the island's 125 miles coastline (including Llanddwyn), it contains rocky headlands, golden beaches, dunes, heaths and fine green countryside.
The Fruit Loop south of Hood River passes many fresh fruit stands in season.
The citadel stands on an artificial mound 130 feet high located on a plateau across the Khasa River.
O'Brien Ascend Collection hotel, 116 Navarro Street (one block away from the San Antonio River Walk), ?
Kollam Junction, is a major railway station, which is located in heart of Kollam town where one can reach Astamudi-Sasthamkotta lake regions
Dolma: Buddhist cafe/wholefood shop on Chause d'Ixelles-Elsensesteenweg (It is on the right hand side, just before Place Flagey, on your way out of town).
The city is laid out as follows: Main Street as well as the numbered streets run north-south, starting with Main Street in the west.
Haifa is well connected to Beer Sheva, Nahariyya and the Ben Gurion International Airport by a train line.
Low Season Rates: $125-$375; High Season Rates: $150-$375; Christmas/New Year Week Rates: $175-$400 10 room boutique hotel on the Atlantic Coast of Vieques, modern/minimalist in design, 2 Bedroom 2 Bath private villa available on the property, 2 swimming pools, daily continental breakfast, walking distance to Isabel Segunda and the ferry dock edit
Downhill Mountain Bike Tours are available either across the Chincheros plains, past Inca ruins and down through the spectacular Salineras or the 75km downhill from Abra Malaga to Santa Maria and onto the totally awesome hot springs of Santa Teresa (and easy and cheap access to Machu Picchu from here too).
And Santa Cruz is accessible from Highway 17, Skyline Boulevard (Highway 35 to Highway 9), or beautiful Highway 1.
Washington's Crossing Park, about ten minutes away from downtown by car.
There are the typical high-street chains here, but there are some good special local shops in Dyer Street, the Market Place and in Black Jack Street behind the church.
Southwest Florida is in United States of America and is comprised of the Gulf Coast counties of Manatee, Sarasota, Charlotte, Lee, and Collier.
Many places of good food, good cheer, and good company centered around the best of Boston and Salem area.
is a large nature reserve 50 km north of the city, covering some 650 km of both river wetlands, lowlands and mountain landscapes, around the mouth of the Gorin River on the west bank of the Amur.
The views are stunning views back towards the Ross of Mull or to the North to Coll, Skye.
Routes through Clinton-Camp Springs
The park protects the Southern Boreal Plains and Plateaus Natural Region - a transitional zone between the aspen parkland to the south and the boreal forest to the north.
Hyatt Place Las Vegas, 4520 Paradise Rd (Across from the Hard Rock Casino), ?
Europe's northernmost spa and the fanciest digs in town, featuring a large swimming pool/jacuzzi/waterfall/etc section.
Street barbeques can be common around some sari-sari stores and the city areas.
There are beaches, freshwater lakes and the majestic Deception Pass bridge towers over it all.
Roads in the interior turn out to be little more than dirt paths.
Craanford Mills -This is an unique early 17th Century watermill just four miles from Gorey, off the Gorey - Carnew road.
Florida's Turnpike runs North-South west of the city.
The Atlantic City Boardwalk is the backbone of this seaside resort city, providing access to hotels, resorts, shops, casinos and more.
North Central Cascades is in the North Cascades region of Washington.
During winter time, an ice road connects the mainland to Muhu.
The Imperial is at the corner of the Great Western Highway and Station Street.
Two long distance paths can be accessed from it: Offa's Dyke Path, on the east bank of the Wye, and The Wye Valley Walk, on the west bank.
Mount Victoria Motor Inn is located on Station Street next to the Imperial Hotel and features all ground-floor self-contained units .
This is the best mode of public transit between cities and towns in this region.
The St. Louis metropolitan area is mostly in Missouri to the west and north of the city, but it does spill over into Illinois to some degree, especially to the north-east and along a line toward Belleville Illinois to the east.
It travels via Freedom Square, Rustaveli, Republic Square and Tamar Bridge, to the main train station (Vagzal).
The Bethlehem area is also in close proximity to other large cities in the Northeast, such as: * Allentown, Pennsylvania's third-largest city, located 3 miles west.
We are located in the core of Porto downtown, next to Santa Catarina (main shopping street), with fast access to the subway, bus and railway station.
Seminole Square Shopping Center, Over fifty fine shops located on Route 29 just north of Hydraulic Road in Charlottesville.
Restaurant/bar high on a sand dune overlooking a quiet, pristine beach.
Three-star hotel in Gajahmungkur (@the old european village area)--include: buffet breakfast,pick-up service from/to airport,car wash,unlimited internet hotspot IDR475000.
Bremen is a rather long and narrow city, lined along both sides of the river Weser.
The Coastal Strip between the Indian River and Florida Turnpike is characterized by sprawling subdivisions and bland big-box stores surrounding US-1, the county's main artery.
edit * Green Stairs Hostel, 53 (walk east from Marjanishvili metro station one block, turn right and it'll be a 5min walk on the left).
Miles of trails surround the Waldo Lake wilderness area, the most popular is the lake perimeter trail (22 miles).
Predjama Castle emerging from its cave Predjama Castle emerging from its cave
Good location to Khlong Chao beach(600meter) and waterfall(3km)Family running restaurant and motorbike rental 400-1000THB.
Hudson's largest park at 260 acres, it contains a lake for fishing and two miles of trails.
Knoydart Pottery and Tearoom is a pleasant little caf on the main village street overlooking the loch, serving teas, coffees and light meals.
Street 9-42, zone 1 (Half block NE from Central Park), ?
Hill station situated 700 m above sea level, at Thamarasseri Ghat pass.
A shopping center with entrances on both Marine Parade and Griffith Street, Showcase on the Beach houses many sit-down restaurants, coffee shops, a liquor store, Aldi grocery store, clothes stores, surf shops, art store, medical center, movie cinema, and some white-collar shops on the upper levels.
One is the main street, called River Street and the side streets around it, such as Tamar Street, which runs paralell to River Street.
On the eastern side of the island directly east of the breakwater is a fantastic beach, which can be reached either by trudging across undeveloped dunes and tidal waters, or heading south slightly then following the road down to the single building on the beach, billing itself as a hotel.
It starts at the PA border south of Vestal and travels north to Endicott, West Corners, and beyond.
As a compromise, I propose to have two sections, the city section will include Nowra, and the towns section will include the rest - not including Shoalhaven since it is only the Local Government area.
The main drag, Sovetskaya Street, is lined with small street stalls during spring and summer months, selling fresh fruits and vegetables.
New Jersey Transit drop off location Union Hill Road or Gordon's Corner Rd
Brighton and Hove Buses bus services run to Brighton from Eastbourne in the east and Tunbridge Wells in the north.
Carmel Valley is inland from Monterey County, California, United States.
The intercity bus station is on Xunnan Avenue, behind the train station.
Englewood is a 30 minute drive south from Sarasota/Bradenton Regional Airport (SRQ), a 60 minute drive north from Fort Myers Regional Airport (RSW), and a 75 minute drive south of Tampa Int'l Airport (TPA).
Curzon, Water Lane (A narrow cobbled street which runs down to the river at the crossroads of Hill St, George St and Red Lion St), edit
Also, with 14.9 square miles of winding roads, rolling hills, green forests, and miles of open fields, Hamilton is beautifully rural, peaceful, and inviting.
Tien Giang is one of delta's provinces which has 3 separately regions: fruit region next to Tien river, Dong Thap Muoi region and Go Cong coastal region.
Tomb of Salabat Khan II Six miles east of the city, on a hill between 700 and 800 feet above the city level and on the left of the Ahmednagar-Shevgaon road stands the tomb of the Nizamshahi Minister , Salabat Khan II, commonly (and mistakenly) known as Chand Bibi's Mahal.
It is host to beautiful bays, beaches, well renowned nature reserves and activities such as water sports and angling.
This area contains most of Guam's cities and the island's international airport.
The surrounding around the museum is very calm and quiet, a hilly place with a good collection of Flora and Fauna.
Laguna da Gaviota is a nice lagoon within walking distance from the town.
The restuarant is situated just off the main road next to a large fishing pond surrounded by colonial houses - a welcome change from the busy riverfront.
Rockafellas of Salem, 231 Essex Street (across from the Salem train station), ?
San Antonio Marriott Riverwalk, 889 East Market Street 1-210-224-4555, Balcony views of the city and the famous River Walk below.
The park protects the Southern Boreal Plains and Plateaus Natural Region - a transitional zone between the aspen parkland to the south and the boreal forest to the north.
High Street/Vine Street The River Avon Chinese restaurant hidden away on the first floor above the shops on High Street offers good quality food, and is reasonably prices.
This mall is located in the heart of Providence.
Tallahassee is on Interstate Highway 10
Chinatown is 3 blocks from the 12 Street/City Center BART station.
The tram network extends from Darmstadt-Arheilgen in the north to Darmstadt-Eberstadt in the south and beyond to Seeheim-Jugenheim and Alsbach, from Griesheim in the west to Darmstadt-Kranichstein in the northeast.
Louis is served by a local bus service known as Dial-A-Ride Transit (DART) that provides service throughout St. Louis and neighboring Alma.
Expansion projects are still the works that will continue the trail and connect with the Blackstone Trail in the northern part of the state.
The other main east-west street Avenida Constituyentes is located where you would expect to find Calle 18.
BAR LEON is kitty-corner from the northeast corner of Yanagase on Kanda-machi street.
A range of hills running southwards from the coast at Denbighshire in the north-east of the country, close to the border with England.
There are very good services departing from Retiro bus station , covering the whole country.
Downtown Decatur is on the east-west MARTA rail line to Decatur Station (E6).
a premium micro-distillery located on the island of Alameda, just off Oakland's waterfront.
Recohuata, a developed hot springs area, is also within 10 miles of Creel.
Sundown and sunrise are times to be on the alert through the Australian bush, as well as regions where you will encounter water sources like rivers and reservoirs, or the plains surrounding mountain ranges.
The valley here is several km width with flat banks of the river and steep surrounding hills.
Hotel Casa Tucan is in the heart of Playa del Carmen, only 2 blocks from the crystal blue Caribbean beach and a block and half from the popular shopping and night life of 5th Avenue.
Eagle Creek is the most famous hike, passing many waterfalls, including one where the trail goes through a tunnel behind the waterfall.
Many gravel roads in the south are in good condition and experienced drivers tend to drive on them as fast as they would on the sealed roads.
Crea Mall, the shopping strip running between Kawagoe and Hon-Kawagoe stations, offers many of the usual chains and numerous ramen shops.
Route 62) - Better known as the Fruit Route, the Langkloof fruit region is the second largest deciduous fruit-producing area in South Africa.
When surveyor Evans followed the MacPherson range eastwards he was directed to mark the border and terminate it at Point Danger, however the watershed hit the coast at Currumbin headland some distance north.
International trains provide a large number of routes to Sofia, arriving from such places as Vienna, Moscow and other common cities.
Perron Street was home to a butcher shop, restaurants, hardware and general stores.
Downtown has several hotel-casinos, as well as the 'Fremont Street Experience', a pedestrian mall lined with casinos, near the western end of Fremont Street.
Sawgrass Mills, located in city of Sunrise at Sunrise Blvd and NW 136 Ave.
David Livingstone Safari Resort is situated to the northeast of the Masai Mara National Reserve in Lemek Conservancy on a broad bend with hippo pools on the Mara River.
Make a left on to Butler Street to get to Upper Lawrenceville, and continue on Butler to get to Highland Park and the Zoo.
From Springfield, Sturbridge or Points West take Interstate 90 (Massachusetts Turnpike) East to exit 9 (Sturbridge) take the Rte.
If you plan on spending more than 2 hours, park at Swift Gym or by the Police Station, both located off of Pierce Street.
The police station in the city is on Parkside, next door to the fire station, as well as smaller stations in the nearby villages of Histon and Sawston.
Kangaroos in particular will leap across roadways directly in front of vehicles, and are more likely to hop along the roadway than hop off it.
Many small shops line Travis Street, and the three-level Touch of Class Antique shop holds court at the corner of Lamar and Crockett on the square.
Fundo Pedrito ((alligator farm)), Barrio Florido village, river Amazonas (45 minutes by boat from the Bellavista Nanay port, Iquitos).
High-speed train connect all major cities and towns on the eastern coast.
The Lyndhurst estate in Tarrytown, NY sits on 67 acres overlooking the Hudson River.
The Downs are an upland chalk ridge marked by steep slopes rising from the south.
Go deep sea fishing or whale watching at near by Depoe Bay.
From Upper Hutt, State Highway 2 travels the length of the lower Hutt Valley alongside the Hutt river.
Currently, the only area that is dangerous in Israel are the areas bordering the Gaza Strip; the rest of the country is very safe.
Bridges guide you across canals, rivers, and streams.
From Kouvola the road will follow the Salpausselk ridge dividing Finland's coastal and inland regions.
Golf Resort & Spa Complex situated on 23 acres.
Europa Island is nowhere near Europe.
From Paud travel 10kms to reach village Male (pronounced Maa-lay) - From village Male turn right to leave main road and travel towards village Valne - Climb up a small mountain.
Another scenic drive is The Pacific Coast Highway , 'traversing the spectacular east coast of New Zealand's North Island, is one of the great touring routes in the world.
When getting directions, it's best to ask for the name of an exit as well the exit right before it.
Charlottesville is on the Cardinal, Crescent, and Northeast Regional routes.
Chic Trendy dance club in the industrial area of the city, mainly plays house music.
Boat trips are held along the reed channels in spring and summer when the water level is above average.
The Anna Roux Wildflower Garden lies on the town's outskirts and the Tradouw Pass with pools and waterfalls is ten minutes away.
There are three main train stations in this area, namely Namba Railway Station, JR-Namba railway station and Osaka-Namba Railway Station.
Major east-west routes through this region arre I-90 through Spokane and US-12 through the southern areas.
California Park in the suburb of Totara Park and the Wellington Fault that runs through the middle of the park and the suburb.
Ritzville is a city in the Columbia River Plateau region of Washington State.
The atrium may be the most well-known symbol of the building, and one is able to stroll up the long, spiral walkway that runs along its glass-and-steel walls.
Surrey County - the eastern third of the country (contains the parishes of Kingston, Portland (Jamaica), Saint Andrew, Saint Thomas)
Many parking areas and visitor platforms provide breathtaking views of the high alpine scenery on Austria's highest mountain, Grosglockner (literally:Big Bell), its largest glacier, Pasterze glacier, and many other features.
PSL is easily accessible by car from Fort Lauderdale, Miami, and other points in South Florida via Interstate 95 and Florida's Turnpike.
Highways include: * Highway 24 gives four lane access from the east and two lane entry from the west.
L'etoile, on Main Street midway between the Corner and the Downtown Mall, .
Going east on Highway 41 will bring you to Sewanee; going west will take you to Winchester.
The 30 or 45 bus will turn left onto Sutter and then right onto Stockton; after passing through the Stockton Tunnel, the bus will stop twice in Chinatown, on Stockton near Clay and on Stockton near Pacific.
A couple miles south of downtown starts the 'Strip' (Las Vegas Boulevard South), a north-south street lined with large casino-hotels, shopping malls, and other attractions.
The station is located on Station Street, from there it is a short uphill stroll to the main shops and highway.
The north-south highway passes to the east of the city and stretches south to Helsingborg in southern Sweden.
There is a great pool with views out to the Caribbean Sea set within a lush tropical garden of coconut trees, banana palms, mango and orange trees.
Italian Restaurant, medium-high price, next to the Church of St. John of Knights * Restaurant Prado.
Clarendon Square Shopping Centre caters for much of Hyde's retail with more shopping areas surrounding this center, although Hyde is surrounded by major shopping destinations such as Stockport, Ashton-under-Lyne and the Trafford Centre.
Vila Nova de Gaia lies across the Douro River from Porto.
Hartshorn Park, off of Winter Street.
Near the Casino Queen on the Mississippi River is the Gateway Geyser.
City Beck's' open bar in the lower right corner Millennium bridge.
Jasmine Valley Eco-resort, Kep Mountain (two kilometers up into the mountain from the Kep Hospital corner), ?
Watch many people attempting to toss small change into the large rice-straw rope of one of the shrines outside the main shrine until it lodges.
Soomaa National Park, second largest national park in Estonia, famous for its 'fifth season' * Valga, border-town in South-Estonia * Prnu, historical resort seaside city with a small harbour, Estonia's summer capital * Tartu, museum-rich and hanseatic city of Tartu on the banks of the Emajgi River, famous for its university
A small, indoor shopping mall located at the corner of Main Street and West Broad Street.
Located in Simpang Lima area, connected to Plaza Simpang Lima shopping center.
The main Gopalgonj city is divided by some Paras like Moddho Para, Mia Para, Bank Para, Moulovi Para, Shaha para, Thana Para, Nichu Para, Janata Road etc. Janata Road & Bank para are the best residential areas in Gopalgonj city.
Shortly after, Henry B. Plant completed work on his railroad linking Tampa to Jacksonville.
A resort style hotel in downtown San Antonio near the Riverwalk, San Antonio Convention Center, Sea World and Alamo.
Well known as a recreational park including beach, boat launch, birdwatching and hiking amenities in summer, and cross-country ski trails in the winter.
Penn Avenue from 34th to Friendship Avenue contains some art studios, coffee shops, funky bars, and ethnic restaurants.
As if all that wasn't enough, the Metropolitan also operates The Cloisters, located in Fort Tryon Park in Upper Manhattan, houses a collection of medieval art and incorporates elements from five medieval French cloisters and other monastic sites in southern France in its renowned gardens.
Manas National Park - the wildlife park is situated on the foothills of Eastern Himalayas, where the river Manah flows with picturesque turns and clean water and sandy beaches.
One of the best diners in Bethlehem and the Lehigh Valley, located in Center City.
By walking south from here, you can reach the other end of the unrestored brick-wall section, blocked by an iron fence on this side.
Initial proposal based on local government boundaries (I used this map of Outer Sydney for every region except Inner Sydney, this map of Inner Sydney, and Sydney (city) districts: * Sydney (region): a region page for the Sydney metropolitan area extending from the Royal National Park in the south, to the foot of the mountains in the west to Berowra in the north.
Ubajara National Park (Caves and Waterfalls in the interior of Ceara 5.5 hours West of Fortaleza)
The city was built along the hills overlooking the Douro river estuary, and its historical center was awarded World Heritage status by UNESCO in 1996.
The boundary follows Highbury St / 16th Ave / Pacific Spirit Park in the east, while to the west and south is Georgia Strait and to the north is Burrard Inlet.
Tsurube, is a small Udon-only restaurant located on Ushiroda street, clustered with other small noodle and okonomiyaki shops.
From Salt Lake City take I-15 north to Tremonton, then west on I-84 to Snowville and then routes 30 and 42, or continue north on I-84 to Sublette exit 245 and go west toward Malta, Elba, and Almo.
Kankakee is served by the Illinois Central Railroad, a Canadian National Railway subsidiary, which provides Amtrak passenger service to Kankakee Depot and freight service.
Within one square kilometer, you will find about 260 bars, coffee shops and snug brewing houses.
A scenic 14.5-mile path traversing the communities of Providence, East Providence, Warren, & Barrington, begins right here in Bristol.
Today, the section on Broadway Street between Columbus and Samsome Street is an area that many consider to be the city's red-light district.
Dial-A-Ride Transit (DART) provides transportation service throughout St. Louis and neighboring Alma.
This tranquil seaside oasis sits right on the beach and features a spa and pool.
Follow Daniels Parkway west to Summerlin Road, then Summerlin Road south and west to McGregor Boulevard, which leads to the Sanibel Causeway.
It is mostly a well-to-do residential area, which includes the wide, park-lined, Tervuren Avenue (French: Avenue de Tervueren, Dutch: Tervurenlaan) and the numerous embassies located near the Montgomery Square (Square Montgomery, Montgomeryplein).
It's hard to notice anything on this very large quadrangle other than the enormous National Historic Landmark of Healy Hall (1897), whose high-set Flemish-Romanesque towers loom over the neighborhood, and even the city.
Routes near Saariselk village are well marked and require only sneakers and clothes accordant with current weather.
While walking through and enjoying different features of plants and flowers one can enjoy spectacular views of meadows, woodlands, ponds, birds and wildlife.
San Andrs * Providencia * Santa Catalina (Small island very close to Providencia)
Boasts a lovely waterfront park called Bluewater Park where there is a playground, a small sandy beach, boat launch and a trail that connects to the Bruce Trail.
Fish Eagle Bay Lodge, about 9km south of Nkhotakota (access from the Sani Trading Centre), ?
Rijnmond is in the Netherlands a more commonly used for the area around Rotterdam, Rijnland revers to the area around the city of Leiden (The river Rhine passed in the Roman times through that area.
The Crawley County Mall is probably the largest shopping centre between Brighton offering the typical selection of bland chain shops you will find on every UK highstreet.
The piers have great views of Manhattan, a large selection of bars, restaurants, and clubs, and are a good place to walk around.
High-speed catamaran between Salem and Central Wharf, Boston at the New England Aquarium.
In European countries in the outskirts of a cities public transport system can often overlap with a neighbouring city, often providing a cheaper method of transport than an inter-city trip.
The path's colour will be marked on trees throughout the path: three short horizontal bars, the outer two white and the innermost the colour of the path you're on.
The park contains a number of Indian mounds, pine flatwoods, swamps and artesian springs, and a number of creeks and rivers.
editThe 240 mhigh Rhine Tower is right on the Rhine river, near the Media Harbor.
Disturbances have occurred in the vicinity of Dili's Comoro airport, areas surrounding internally displaced persons camps, and at food storage warehouses.
The monument is in a small park with a bench looking out over the Georgia Straight, the Gulf Islands, and Vancouver Island.
However, nearly every European city has direct long-distance flights at least to some destinations elsewhere, and other smaller airports can make sense for specific connections: for example, Vienna (VIE) has a very good network of flights to the Middle East and Eastern Europe, while Helsinki (HEL) is the geographically closest place to transfer if coming in from East Asia.
The shopping mall Dompassage in central Greifswald has about 30 shops, a bowling alley and a cinema.
Augustusburg Palace and Gardens Augustusburg Palace and Gardens * Brhl - almost a suburb of Cologne and contains the Augustusburg Palace which has been placed on the UNESCO World Heritage List.
This glacial lake was formed during the last ice age; its impressive 80m (260fft) high granite walls cast a black shade over the waters below.
This picturesque fishing village, with a long history of settlement, has grown over the last decades into the main tourist area of the concelho.
Lakes under Palava (mountains).
Typical gateway cities include Aix-en-Provence, Avignon, and Valence.
The largest and most famous is on the Cours Mirabeau, the main avenue through town, as well as a moss-covered fountain which draws its water from a hot spring.
Scour the charity shops down Burleigh Street, Regent Street and Mill Road for bargains.
Patensie is situated in a citrus producing area on the edge of the Baviaanskloof Mega Reserve (part of the Cape Floral Region world heritage site) and the Stinkhoutberg Nature Reserve.
CanalWay signage marks a path from downtown Cleveland to rural Historic Zoar CanalWay signage marks a path from downtown Cleveland to rural Historic Zoar
New Jersey Turnpike Interstate 95 is in East Windsor Township (Exit 8) and bordering Monroe Township (Exit 8A).
This town is located on the Lincoln Highway and an hour away southwest of Harrisburg.For a small town, Chambersburg offers a wide range of activities for people of all ages.
Skip service usually runs along the streets with high traffic, they are called Skip routes because they usually Skip bus stops that are serviced by the frequent routes.
Jump to: search The Lyndhurst estate in Tarrytown, NY sits on 67 acres overlooking the Hudson River.
Ferry service between the islands of Grenada, Petit Martinique.
A main bus station is located in the mall parking lot.
These trails are stunning, with high ocean views, accessible tree lines, steep precipices, stone bridges, etc.
See here for a more complete list: * Anglican many churches, including college chapels and Great St Mary's next to the market square.
Zanzibar Butterfly Centre, (Located near to Jozani National Park), .
Lastly, if calling the settlements in this region 'cities' is a real stretch -- say, for remote or rural areas with only towns and/or villages -- it's OK to rename this section 'Towns' or 'Villages' or 'Settlements' or whatever.
A ferry visits Nkhata Bay twice a week - once going north and once going south.
The Bathala Caves - The Bathala Caves are one of the famed sites of Marinduque, this Massive cave system is located in the mountains of Santa Cruz on private Property.
19th century European settlement theme park (ala Madame Butterfly) and architecture, Chinese architecture and temple, huge Dutch theme park not far from town...
The Chinatown market area is mainly along Stockton Street, one block above (west of) Grant Avenue, and the east-west streets crossing Stockton.
There is a national rail link connecting Flushing, Middelburg and Goes via Bergen op Zoom en Roosendaal (both in North-Brabant) to the national system.
Gelterswoog Lake, A nice lake near Kaiserslautern with grassy ground and boating facilities.
Containing large fields equestrian grazing areas and trails for people and horses.
Today the historic courthouse located in the center of town is home to the East Greenwich Town Offices.
Bangug Island is a small reef system running parallel to the island and ending in a maximum depth of 20 meters.
Areas immediately east and south of Memorial Drive, as well as the Kensington MARTA station, are not tourist-oriented and are best avoided even if MARTA has police patrolling their rail stations.
The Santa Inez Valley, just north across the crest of the seaside mountain range, is a fairly well-known winery region.
The Olympic mountain range sits in the center of the Olympic Peninsula.
Erected in 1970, this ornate dragon-crested gate, marks the southern entrance to Chinatown.
Follow on to the Queensland border, and on the other side of the border gate turn hard left on a dirt road and park.
Nyungwe national park is a high altitude mountainous rain forest that is contiguous with Kibera national park in Burundi.
Aside from the University and related research centers, this area is also home to Verizon Wireless Ampitheatre, a well-defined 'downtown' cluster of hotels and retail centers, and many square miles of sprawling shopping centers.
Snowdonia National Park was established in 1951 as the third national park in the UK, and the first in Wales.
A Talyllyn Railway train passing a level crossing near Brynglas Station A Talyllyn Railway train passing a level crossing near Brynglas Station * Snowdon Mountain Railway Llanberis.
Wildlife parks such as Fuji Safari Park near Gotemba or the Atagawa Tropical and Alligator Garden in Higashiizu.
fixed routes cover the city, including the Historic Sites route, which serves tourist destinations.
Carl Hubbell Museum and burial site are north on Highway 18 in Meeker, Oklahoma, a treat for fans of old-time major league baseball.
The Premier coach service running between Melbourne on the coastal route, passes through Sale.
Union Station-Navy Yard 'Navy' Line - runs past Eastern Market between Union Station and Navy Yard near the Nationals Stadium M-F 6AM-6PM.
The Deleware River Joint Toll Bridge On a nice day there is a walkway arcross the bridge from New Hope to Lambertville.
Los Angeles, with its whopping 464 square miles, covers more area inland than area that actually rims the coast.
Berry Banks Cottage is in an outstanding and tranquil location in an elevated position above the valley of the River Esk and by the side of a Grade II listed railway viaduct.
Letterkenny is home to hundreds of high street shops, including branches of many international fashion boutiques.
Cais de Gaia This is a bar region in riverfront area in the neighbour city of Vila Nova de Gaia.
Next to Roble Dormitory, near the intersection of Lomita Drive and Santa Teresa Street)
Jesus Trail, a hiking trail from Nazareth to Capernaum covering 65 kilometers that connects major Christian sites in the Galilee.
This beautiful lake is surrounded by majestic Himalayan peaks covered with snow and glaciers.
Oakland is served by the regional rail system Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) and the nationwide, long-distance rail service Amtrak , with the Bay Area's largest Amtrak station located in the neighboring city of Emeryville.
This road climbs to the border crossing at the watershed at Tomewin, but near the top of the climb take the turn left on Garden of Eden Road.
The center will serve as a base for expanding models of high-tech farming to the whole area of the Mekong Delta.
The park has more than 250 lakes, ponds and wetlands over 20% of its surface area.
Luxury spa retreat set in 4 hectares of sub tropical gardens and located in Casares close to Marbella.
The Tennessee and Cumberland Rivers run roughly parallel through western Kentucky.
Meandering through the coastal areas of Kerala is a 900 kilometers (560 miles) long intricate network of lagoons, lakes, canals, estuaries and deltas of several rivers that flow into the Arabian Sea.
The Whipple Museum of the History of Science , Department of History and Philosophy of Science, Free School Lane, just off Pembroke Street, 01223 330906.
Around the Grand Plaza small covered shops offer water.
A unique bar and restaurant located in historic downtown has four floors of great entertainment and fine dining.
Puka Pukara, ruin of fort overlooking road Puka Pukara, ruin of fort overlooking road * Tambomachay, The most distant ruin on the route from Cuzco.
Several countries in South America and Mexico have shorelines - and islands - in the Caribbean.
exit which will lead you into Montvale in Bergen County.
The fisheries department has dug more than 50 ponds occupying over 25 bigha on 100-hectare of land.
Other dive sites are located on the seaward side of San Sebastian (south of the islands on the mainland peninsular ), A point jutting out in line with the islands.
Exit east (Church St.) for the pedestrian and taxi entrance to the station; exit west (Commerce) to transfer to MARTA buses.
Whether you are into reef, river, estuary, deep sea or coastal fishing there are plenty of incredible locations to choose from within the Jeffreys Bay area edit * Bluewater Fishing Charters, ?
Dayton Mall, 2700 Miamisburg-Centerville Rd (Near the I-75/I-675 interchange in Miami Township), ?
This picturesque setting includes: - Extensive formal gardens - More than 100 outdoor sculptures and garden ornaments - Natural areas including the Sangamon River, floodplains, lowland and upland forests, a meadow and a 30-acre demonstration prairie - 14 miles of interpretive hiking trails - A century-old, Georgian-style mansion with reflecting pond serves as a retreat center
The town lies at the foot of the Nant Francon pass, leading up the Ogwen valley into the heart of the Snowdonia mountains.
The area runs from roughly Bay Street to the north, Powell Street south of Filbert Street and Columbus Avenue north of Filbert on the west, San Francisco Bay on the east, and Washington Street on the south with an extension to Bush Street between Kearny and Powell Streets to encompass the rest of Chinatown.
Occupying the top four floors of Mandalay Bay's main building, the Four Seasons is one of the most exclusive and high-end accommodations in Las Vegas.
West Sumatra (Sumatra Barat) is in Indonesia.
The route also includes a stop at the Oakland Coliseum/Airport Amtrak station, adjacent to the Oakland Coliseum BART station.
The narrow-gauge Ffestiniog Railway connects the Cambrian Coast line at Blaenau Ffestiniog * Another narrow gauge line, the Welsh Highland Railway connects Rhyd Ddu and Waunfawr.
Aik Kalak hot springs, at the crater rim
Bartow (Georgia) is town of 200 in Jefferson County, Georgia.
Dongjiao Coconut Plantation, (twenty minute's ferry from Qinglan Harbour).
Bowman's Hill Wildflower Preserve and Tower, on River Road (the main street).
Tar Hollow State Park, east part of Ross County, east of Chillicothe, at 16396 Tar Hollow Road, Laurelville, 71 sites with electrical hookups, 11 non-electric sites, 12 walk-in sites, and 5 primitive sites along a backpack trail.
The resort recently added a man-made beach located behind a rock seawall which makes access to the water difficult.
In the city alone there are 7 independent mineral water springs.
Tanner Park-A famous park in a town right outside of Amityville which has basketball courts, football fields, baseball fields, tennis courts, a beach, skateboard park, playgrounds and many other things.
Muth Wetlands Interpretive Center- Located on Irvine Avenue, and facing out onto coastal wetlands, this is an excellent introduction to the flora and fauna of Pacific Coast wetlands.
There are major intersections and bridges that provide ready access to most Hutt Valley suburbs.
Nearly all of the shops are chain stores located in the mall area outside of downtown.
Queenscliff is a short ferry ride from Sorrento and offers car and passenger services.
There are four main highways entering the city which connect to suburban areas and other national routes.
Newly-opened bar and grill in a villa in an ideal location near Dadonghai Beach (behind Wave bar).
Perhaps best described as the Mediterranean zone, Zone 3 has the southern European countries (Croatia, France, Greece, Italy, Spain, Turkey), some Arab countries (Jordan, Libya, Morocco, Tunisia) and Germany as the exception that enforces the rule.
Central Sofia Market Hall, Marie Louise Boulevard (Opposite the Banya Bashi mosque.
Brussels is split into nineteen communes or gemeenten (municipalities/boroughs): * Bruxelles/Brussel - Brussels encompasses many charming and beautiful attractions, with deeply ornate buildings on the Grand Place/Grote Markt, and a fish-and-crustacean overdose of St. Catherine's Square (Place St-Catherine/Sint-Katelijneplein).
Technically in the Lake Claire/Candler Park neighborhood of Atlanta, but closer to Decatur's Oakhurst neighborhood and downtown Decatur Square than midtown Atlanta.
Dromana- The small coastal village of Dromana sits in a valley between Arthurs Seat and Mount Martha and with a beautful beach with brightly painted boat sheds lining the shore, its a pretty spot to spend a few days.
Muck seen from Horse Island, an uninhabited island north-west of Gallanach Muck seen from Horse Island, an uninhabited island north-west of Gallanach
The first east-west artery to Playa is Avenida Constituyentes, which works well for destinations in northern Playa; the second is Avenida Juarez, which leads to the town's main square.
Situated at the entrance to the North Channel amidst sparkling white quartzite peaks and pink granite rock, its Harbour sheltered from the turbulent waters of Georgian Bay by George Island.
It is located southeast of Oulujrvi (Lake Oulu), which drains to the Gulf of Bothnia along the Oulujoki (river Oulu).
Cannon Rocks - Cannon Rocks is a tiny and quiet village lying on the shores of the Boknes lagoon.
Along the coast line between Manseongri and Yeosu train station is located Marae Tunnel, the only natural rock tunnel in Korea.
Amersham is well connected to motorways around London which branch off to Amersham via the nearby town of Beaconsfield.
A second highway, Highway 17, runs north-south through the city, but is primarily only a local route.
Those in 4 wheel drives can fork right and follow the road through the Condamine Gorge.
In the city of Sakai lies the Nintoku Tomb, the largest burial mound in Japan.
The dive sites at Partridge Point, including Big Rock, Seal Rock, Deep Partridge and Peter's Pinnacles are inshore rocky reefs at the southern end of the Castle Rocks restricted zone within the Table Mountain National Park Marine Protected Area on the False Bay coast of the Cape Peninsula, near Cape Town in the Western Cape province of South Africa.
Also, note that most villages and resorts have more than one line passing through and stopping in different places.
It is also the longest north-south highway in the United States.
Buses departing and arriving to all major routes outside of Camberley town centre depart from either side of the road which runs Parallel to the main train station.
Cars on this road are headed to the Swiss Autobahn, a few hundred meters across the river directly west of the bridge.
Torc Waterfall a beautiful waterfall in the Killarney National Park.
Ballyragget - a small town near Freshford, really off the tourist trail.
One of the most well known pubs in the town is The Corner Bar, which is on the top end of Market Street opposite the First Trust bank.
Check out the nice small beach on Lake Michigan on the road near the power station.
Alblasserwaard-Drechtsteden is a water-rich polder area in South Holland, Netherlands.
The Pilanesberg National Park is right next to Sun City.
Mercantour National Park is in the Alpes-Maritimes department of France.
Blue Hill is an upscale restaurant located at the Stone Barns Center for Food and Agriculture, a model farm adjacent to Rockefeller State Park Preserve.
In San Teodoro there a several waterfalls and scenic spots, including Tukuban Falls, Binaybay Falls, Lambingan Falls, Botolan Falls, Aras Falls and caves, Punta(Ilag Point) and Tabunan Hot Springs.
This fountain is found in the center of the Monplaisir Garden.
Car is by far the easiest way to get to the area with well maintained roads and ample parking within the town.
Special buses ferry people from the station to the river bank and back.
Many bus routes start in front of Akita Station.
Drive to the Paarl Mountain Nature Reserve on the crest of Paarl Mountain which offers a scenic drive and is a good starting point for walks to the granite domes.
Hotel Metropole Brussels - As the city's only 19th-century hotel still in operation, this 5-star landmark is in the historic center of Brussels.
Two of them are pump wells that are located just off the road near a parking area (one near Bath Rock and the other is near the Breadloaf).
La Avenida del Arsenal is located along the bay near the Centro de Convenciones.
From the south, Urana Corowa Road branches off the Riverina Highway(HWY 58) and leads directly to Urana's main street.
You can find serene, calm lake surrounded by hills, waterfalls, dam, forts, valley and much more in Bhadardara.
Mid Beach Often known just as 'Miami Beach', this district refers to the 'Mid-beach' area between 23rd Street and 63rd Street.
By car: Nebraska's major national highway corridor is Interstate 80, which runs east-west across the state.
This bar, popular in the summer, covers an entire city block, is walled and filled with trees, indoor and outdoor tables and a cool crowd, and serves great Czech and German beer.
Northern Indiana is the region of Indiana including 26 counties bordering parts of Illinois, Michigan, and Ohio.
Lanta Mermaid Boutique House, 333 M.3 Klong Dao Beach, Saladan (Across from Mermaid Beach Front Resort), ?
Hillier's Arboretum, and Mottisfont Abbey and Gardens are both nearby.
Bundy Arts and Victorian Museum, 129 Main Street (west side, just across Chenango River from Court Street), ?
Jack's Island, a peninsula that extends into the Sakonnet River, is home to breeding Ospreys.
On a day with a fair and clear weather one can see the faint outline of Garo Hills in Meghalaya, north-eastern India, on the horizon.
It will house 3 residential buildings, 3 office buildings, 1 retail mall, a shopping street, underground parking, public garden (with a small lake and amphitheater) and an IMAX cinemaplex.
Arlington features a unique network of dedicated bike paths that crisscross the county as well as dedicated bike lanes on many major roads.
Kande Beach Resort, about 40 km south of Nkhata Bay, .
Excellent water quality and infrastructure, with many restaurants and utility shops in the beach front.
The Atrium brand new shopping and leisure complex on the south side of the town incorporating a multiplex cinema, bowling alley, restaurants and shops.
Public-use airports closest to East St. Louis include: St. Louis Downtown Airport, Airport: Sackman Field, and St. Louis Metro East Airport.
There are usually plenty of well marked rest areas on major highways, though these are usually very basic and do not always have toilet facilities.
The Rhine starts in the Swiss Alps and caused the Rhine Falls, the largest plain waterfall in Europe.
Tucked at the northern end of Captiva Island off Florida's Gulf Coast, South Seas Island Resort is a sprawling, village-style resort nestled among 330 acres and two-and-a-half miles of shell-laden beaches.
There are tidal rockpool next to the blowhole and harbour for swimming.
This picturesque fishing village, facing the Atlantic Ocean, the Algarve is a paradise to those who like fish or shellfish.
Be warned - just blocks north of the Delmar Loop lies North St. Louis, a very dangerous area best to be avoided AT ALL TIMES!
Lower Makefield Township 'park'- Located by the free library and police station, the LMT park is a popular place for families in the area.
The city was founded in 1855, when the Illinois Central Railroad was built through the county.
Nevis Range, Ski Resort & Mountain Biking World Cup Venue, with gondola's up the mountain (19 miles, towards Inverness)
Shady Brook Farm, 931 Stony Hill Road (Take I-95 to exit 49(Newtown/Yardley),follow route 332 west 1/4 mile to traffic light, turn left onto Stony Hill Road, entrance is 1/4 mile down on the right.
This site contains a sandy area with some really interesting sea life and is full of colorful mixed coral species and many reef fish.
A four star hotel with a perfect position to reach by walk the best beaches of Capri, and the main square (famous as piazzetta) of the town.
There are poultry farms, and dairy farms and houses on cut hills.
Dense mangrove forest is parted by numerous canals covering the area.
The main attractions are the waterlogged suburbs traversed by canals; much of the city's commerce takes place on water.
Angola - Small city in far Northeast Indiana.
Castlecomer (Irish: Caislean an Chomair)is the largest town in north County Kilkenny.
The airport is situated north-east of Chora.
Cuxhaven's railway station is right in the center of the city.
Liberty Avenue from 33rd Street to the Bloomfield Street Bridge features some artisan studios and restaurants.
Burr Oak State Park and Resort Lodge, Athens County, north of Glouster and east/adjacent to the Wayne National Forest off of Route 13.
Most major cruise ships that ply the waters of Europe during summer (June - September) also do cruises in Latin America and Southeast Asia for the rest of the year.
Take the ferry over Lake Pielinen to Lieksa and drive to Nurmes.
Chirk Marina is located on the Llangollen branch of the Shropshire Union Canal.
This airport is south of Brussels and one hour drive away from Brussels Midi/Zuid Station at the city centre.
A far more scenic route, avoiding miles of car yards, traffic lights and suburban build up is to take the Mt Barker Highway (the main road out of Adelaide to Melbourne) and leave the highway to enter Hahndorf.
Today the 'Apple Express' runs through the valley, linking all the fruit growing villages and towns.
Sailing & Power Boating - The waters surrounding the peninsula provide a great spot for sailing and power boating.
Another 1 mile north on the same route, there is a natural reserve of native and rare South America fauna.
Bushmans River - The little village of Bushman's River Mouth has a calm estuary and long stretches of sandy beach, which is perfect for river and beach activities.
A long 2 meter high and no more than 1.7 meter broad tunnel under the Vijlenerberg connected the new factory to its quarry.
Off the major inter-city highways, road conditions can be difficult in remote areas.
When arriving via the Friendship Bridge, you might like to visit the Buddha Park sculpture garden before going on to Vientiane, and save yourself a return trip back past the border crossing later.
It covers Farah Province, Helmand Province, Kandahar Province, Nimruz Province, Uruzgan Province and Zabul Province.
A premier destination entertainment resort located on 16.7 acres on the corner of Harmon and Paradise Road, inside the Paradise Corridor.
The most expensive and luxurious restaurants are found in the Puerto Madero zone, near downtown, heading to the River Plate.
This road will end at Tornio river.
The Slieve League cliffs in the county are among the highest sea cliffs in Europe.
Teka Molino is a famous restaurant located on San Pedro, two blocks from North Star Mall.
As this section of the road passes the main volcanic peaks and is on the main north-south road it is well travelled.
In spite of its modest size, the college's three-sided brick Main Court is almost unique among Cambridge Colleges and deserves a short stop while strolling down Trumpington Street.
A treasure house of architecture is found along the 12km.stretch of Main Street, starting at the 'Strooidakkerk'(thatched roof church) with the Zeederberg Square next to it surrounded by picturesque Cape Dutch, Victorian and Georgian houses.
Middelburg (South Holland) - A small village near Reeuwijk, Netherlands.
Nitrogen narcosis in deep areas, Loose rocks on walls, Submerged trees and possibly other debris.
Schiedam Nieuwland train station is located north-west of the city centre and is served by the Hoek van Holland-Rotterdam Centraal railway line.
Corn and soybeans are the major crops but the area is also home to berry, apple, pumpkin, and Christmas tree farms.
The city of Decatur includes two additional MARTA rail stations: East Lake (E5) and Avondale (E7).
The neighborhood derived its name as the bay shoreline originally reached as far as Taylor and Francisco streets, and the area was indeed a real beach until the city subsequently filled it in.
A fairly new public park, this provides an scenic location to enjoy the meeting of the Susquehanna and Chenango Rivers as well as enjoy the historic Washington Street bridge.
Chirk Station is on the the Chester line.
Miami Motorcycle Trails (1), 5 miles north of Oakhurst near southern entrance of Yosemite.
Casinos along the Boardwalk at night Casinos along the Boardwalk at night
The city extends on a plain covering 19.4 kilometers (12 miles) from north to south and 17.9 kilometers (11 miles) from east to west.
Lakeside is an area of land left behind by the gravel extraction for the M27.
The narrow road switchbacks to the top of the range and a rough lookout over Teviot Falls seen to the right.
Bang Ramat Market, Bang Ramat Rd (from the Southern Bus Terminal, go south along Phutthamonthon Sai 1 Road for 2 km; the market is at the corner of Phutthamonthon Sai 1 Road and Bang Ramat Rd).
Paul-de-Vence is a city in France.
Bouches-du-Rhne Vincent van Gogh was inspired by the countryside of this region.
In a nice summer day, take a cruise in Finland's biggest lake area Saimaa.
Western Road, a major shopping street runs East-West through the intersection.
Small (one square block), well maintained park/square in the heart of the city, located right beside the Financial District.
It is ten miles (16 km) south of Clermont, off County Route 561 on Lake Nellie Road and is made up of bald cypress, live oak and saw palmettos.
It is being built over the car park next to the Swan Centre (the towns main shopping area).
Besides urban areas (Northwest Indiana is larger than all of Marion County) and occasional state parks and wildlife areas, much of northern Indiana is farmland.
Some good examples of Cham architecture: a pair of towers situated right in the city and located in a small park.
The Post Office (Main & Second), McCroskey State Park (Across the Idaho border, a scenic gravel drive)
The closest station is located in the town of Rathen, it is then a ferry ride across the Elbe River to start of the walking track up to the main lookout location.
It's easily accessible by public transport (tram line 6, about 16 minutes from the city center) and by car.
It was at the Lake Manapouri Power Station between the lake and Deep Cove (Doubtful Sound - South Island).
There are many large chain stores in the centre at Place Clemenceau- H&M, Fnac, Quiksilver/Roxy, Galeries Lafayette, etc. There are also smaller shops in the streets surrounding it.
Extends across the country east to west but with significant gaps and many subranges.
Guindy Park happens to be almost certainly the smallest national park in the country and the only park within the city suburbs of India.
Sofia is one of the oldest cities in Europe with ruins spread across the city center.
Visitors enjoy browsing the downtown shops of Kelly Square, as well as other boutiques, restaurants and antique stores on Travis Street.
Walk along the Ham northwards towards the now disused Borough Mills (Healing Mills).
Atlantic City has many high rise condominiums and other major hotels along the Boardwalk and Marina Districts.
Elk Island National Park is an island, not in the geographical sense, but in terms of its landscape of small hills and depressions surrounded by flat plains.
Great place to meet other travelers in town, 20 minutes walking from the center, affordable and comfortable hostel, facilities include an outdoor pool, kitchen, free internet and bar.
Island Transit runs regular routes that pick up passengers at the ferry dock and transports to the main town area of Clinton or to neighboring towns, Langley, Freeland, Coupeville and Oak Harbor.
The Tampa cruise terminal is on the Ybor channel downtown.
From there, it makes up the French-German border border flowing through Western Germany and the Netherlands.
Coolangatta and Rainbow Bay face north.
Camberley is served by many bus routes from Aldershot, Farnham and London.
Nearest Train Stations Ledbury - 2 miles (Direct train from/to London Paddington - duration 2.45hrs) Great Malvern - 8 miles (Direct train from/to London Paddington - duration 2.30hrs) Gloucester - 19 miles (Direct train from/to London Paddington - duration 1.50hrs)
Then he moved east into the next river basin, the Bagmati which drains the Kathmandu Valley that held three small but prosperous urban kingdoms.
There are very good services parting from Retiro bus station, covering the whole country.
India has several international ports on its peninsula.
Darmstadt's landmark is the Langer Ludwig, a statue on a huge sandstone column located right in the city center.
Hanover is about 17 miles north of Plymouth, 23 miles southeast of Boston, and 220 miles from New York City.
Moriah Avenue, starting from Horev center (shopping center) all the way to the Carmel center along Moriah Avenue.
Even in the remote areas of the Olympic Peninsula, you can find a branch of Seattle's famous coffee shop.
The city hall and police office, the cathedral, and several banks and tourist businesses line the four sides of the park.
The Niagara region, home to Niagara on the Lake, is Ontario's premier wine-production region.
It contains a varied karst lanscape, of rocky cliffs, natural potholes, caves and a lake.
Several shops are located at the Grand' Place-Grote Markt itself.
Coming from Adelaide, National Highway 1 takes you from the northern suburbs onto the 4-lane dual carriageway national highway that passes through the towns of Lower Light, Dublin, Windsor, Wild Horse Plains and on to Port Wakefield.
Rafting on the Neretva river, the Una river and the Tara with the Drina river, with some shorter courses on the Krivaja river, the Vrbas river and the Sana river.
Southern Mozambique is made up of Gaza, Inhambane and Maputo provinces.
Bus service 510 runs between Vence, Tourrettes-sur-Loup and Pont-du-Loup.
Large lawn, split in two by Kew Rd, with St. Mary's Church, Kew Cricket Club and pubs set on or near it.
Route 3/Route 250/ Route 83 - Join many locations north, south, east, and west to the Wooster central business district.
Famous for its shops, the Albert George Shopping and Historical Center is located in Water Square.
From Downtown, one can easily walk to Station Square via the Smithfield Street Bridge, and from Station Square take the Monogahela Incline up to Mount Washington.
The Manchones Reef begins just off of Isla's shore and the Cuevones and Banderas Reefs are close by.
Lige-Guillemins is the main station, located on the southwest part of the city.
Boat Quay on the south of the river next to the financial district (MRT Raffles Place, exit G)
Shopping centre with bus station, located in the centre of the city.
Although one third of the Mara, The Mara Triangle has only one lodge within its boundaries (compared to the numerous camps and lodges on the Narok side) and has well maintained, all weather roads.
Italian ice cream in nearby Virginia-Highlands.
Bethesda is on the main A5 Holyhead road, about 6 miles south of Bangor.
Speed boating facility is available in this place.
In mountain areas, be sure to inquire about weather conditions at the tourist information office or local alpine huts as you head out in the morning.
The Flower Center is located on Peace Ave.
Andaman Islands' Barren Island is the only active volcano in South Asia.
High, rugged mountains; low coastal plains; high plateaus; temperate plains with grasslands and Mezquite trees in the northeast, desert and even more rugged mountains in the northwest, tropical rainforests in the south and southeast {Chiapas, Cancn} semiarid in places like {Aguascalientes, San Luis Potosi} and temperate coniferous and deciduous forests in the central part of the country {Mexico City, Toluca}.
Parking in Cirencester has become harder in recent years, owing to increased prices, but there are many car parks near the centre.
The number one and first Premium Hostel in Central America, at a Hostel prices, with high quality accomodations, Hostel located in San Jose Costa Rica in the best tourist-residential and quick access area in San Jose.
Located in Europe's earliest Shopping-Mall (a shiny Jugendstil/Art Nouveau palace).
Located in Savassi, this hostel has the best location near restaurants, bars, concert venues, shopping, cinemas, markets and more!
National History Museum - Spread between five old historic houses, holds important bits of the country's history.
Zamora (Spain) - A city in Zamora province.
Old Town Alexandria's cobblestone streets have nearly 4,000 buildings dating as far back as the 1600s, and are filled with shops and good restaurants.
Just before reaching Glenfinnan station, north/west-bound trains cross the spectacular Glenfinnan Viaduct , a hundred-year-old stone arched rail bridge which was brought to fame in the Harry Potter movies (the bridge also features on the Bank of Scotland 10 note).
Cahora Bassa dam - Hydro-electric dam on the Zambezi river and the second largest man-made lake in Africa.
The three storey great palace sits on top of the ridge that separates the upper and lower parks.
The newest grocery store in the strip mall after replacing Shop n' Save and Super G. Other shops in the strip mall include Blockbuster, Hair Cuttery, Carlucci's Express, Carlucci's Grill, Baskin Robbins, Hallmark Gifts, Endurance Sports, PNC bank, Starbucks, and Kohl's.
One of the largest parks, Highland is home to 2 lakes, Lake Carnegie and Reservoir No.
Rural public bus system serving Centralia from Longview, Lexington, Castle Rock, and Toledo/Winlock (I-5 exit #63) in the south and Tumwater (near Olympia) in the north.
This major attraction along Chak Phra canal is held every weekend.
Garden State Parkway is in bordering Old Bridge
Jasmine Valley is nestled just below the national park in the jungle-covered mountains.
National Express provide coach services to London (coach tends to be slow and takes around 2 hours) and various other cities from Pool Valley coach station, between Old Steine and the seafront.
The grounds of the 'castle' are a popular attraction during drier weather, covering 158 acres of land, containing woodland, children's park areas for sporting and a small lake.
On the banks of the Gamtoos River, self catering two bedroom cottage edit * Orchard View Country House, (On the R331, 3km west of Patensie), ?
National Express buses go from and to Crawley Station and Gatwick Airport.
Panorama - a small centre in the south of Poznan, there's no big choice of shops, but it's a very good place to buy shoes and clothes.
Dade Battlefield Historic State Park is a Florida State Park located on County Road 603 between I-75 (Exit 314) and U.S. 301.
Public tours: Special park boats take passengers with reservations from three mainland locations in Boston.
This area is reputed to have the most number of species per square meter of coral reef.
The road back to Montagu runs through the most fertile fruit growing area with magnificent mountain views.
From the initial 2,000 square meters area still maintains about 700 m square - but enough to infer that we are in front of a large port construction.
Crystal Cove, This is on Pacific Coast highway in the southern reaches of Newport, called Newport Coast.
If taking public transport, CountryLink, the regional public transport provider, operates a bus service from Echuca to Wagga Wagga, which stops in Urana on Sunday, Monday, Wednesday and Fridays.
MARC also provides service on the Brunswick line towards western Maryland through the suburbs of Gaithersburg, and Frederick and on to West Virginia.
VIA Rail services many areas of Ontario, from small towns to the largest cities.
Within the Greater Toronto Area (which includes a large portion of the area around Toronto), GO Transit is an option.
o The M goes east alongside the Nassau Street line (J,Z), but then branches again up Myrtle Avenue to the Middle Village in Queens.
Nishiyama Park - This small park is particularly beautiful in springtime, when hundreds of azaleas trees bloom on the slopes.
This paved trail runs through Hamden into its neighboring town, Cheshire.
The south side includes two developments - the larger East Decatur Station at East College Avenue & New Street, which houses restaurants, a pub, coffee house, live theatre, salon and church - and the smaller development at 313 East College Avenue, which contains a tavern and furniture store.
If you'd rather travel by bus, the CT Transit is also available, stopping in main areas such as the Hamden plaza, Hamden Hills/Centerville, Circular Avenue, and Putnam Place.
Charlottesville, located 114 miles southwest of D.C., is home to the University of Virginia, as well as Thomas Jefferson's Monticello estate and vineyard, and Ash Lawn-Highland, the home of President James Monroe.
Kajaani airport (IATA:KAJ) locates 7 kilometres northwest from Kajaani city centre.
The 'World-Famous' Topeka Zoo, located at Gage Park .
The town lies on the banks of the Trnava Mare River, 20 km east from the city of Media?
Also located in the Karoo area is the Kamala Game Reserve, a Big 5 reserve that is situated at the confluence of the 6000 foot high Bruinjieshoogte and Boschberg mountain ranges.
Travelling northward and southward, Corniglia is the third village and the highest: it is placed on a steep promontory, with two exclusive small beaches at its sides.
Amir Temur Monument and museum' in the Amir Timur park.
Lighthouse Another contemporary art gallery located in Kensington Street, North Laine.
The daily main marketplace - for fruits and vegetables as well as electronics and DIY/hardware-store type supplies is across the river, near Didube.
A member of El Cid Resorts, this all suite oceanfront hotel features Mediterranean style accommodations, a private beach, swimming pools and on-site golf, water sports, tennis courts, and fitness center.
South-flowing rivers converge in candelabra shapes to break through this range in a few narrow gorges.
Bodo's Bagels, near Bank of America and Elliewood Avenue.
Is located on the southern flank of the mountain Retezat being carved in limestone formations from early Jurassic period and provides an extensive network of caves, springs, waterfalls and natural dams.
The Lost City Bar, (turn left out of gringo alley, basement bar on the left before Calle Tigre).
Grandview Inn, Grand Anse (Between Grand Anse and Morne rouge bay beaches), ?
That puts southern Ontario just south of the famous Bordeaux Region in France, and parallel with northern California wine regions.
Saint John Beautiful and more relaxed, home to a couple resorts, a small town, and Virgin Islands National Park, covering 60% of the island's territory.
Protea Lodge Just outside Lusaka this provides both a great place to stay, game drives, a swimming pool and even lions.
Offers quality oceanfront lodging accommodations near South Ft Lauderdale, the airport, cruise ship port terminal and local tourist attractions.
Villas Located near Maspalomas y Meloneras on the Salobre Golf Course.
The bus and railway station are located next to each other.
Asia Caribe, #9 Avenida Hidalgo, Centro Isla Mujeres Mexico (1/2 Block North of the town square), ?
The small resort is facing a sky-blue bay and offers a long, white sandy beach, which is surrounded by palms and mangroves.
Fish Flake Hill, Front St. between Cabot St and Bartlett St overlooking Beverly Harbor, this oldest section of Beverly was named a Historic District in 1971.
In 2005 Oxfordshire County Council proposed building a ring road around Banbury, connecting the M40 to the Oxford Road at Bodicote, to ease town centre traffic.
The garden accommodates gorgeous view of blossoms of over 300 cherry trees in over 99,000 square meters (110,000 square yards).
Star Hotel located in the Sandymount/Ballsbridge area.
This is mainly due to the good transport links of the M3 and M27 motorways and Southampton Airport - with direct flights to much of the UK and many points within Europe.
In the city center go to 'La Bomba' a quiet little pub/pizza place.Prices are relatively cheap, as beer starts from 4 Ron (aprox 1 euro)
Outside of major cities and the coastal routes between some state capitals, Australian highways are mainly two-lane undivided sealed asphalt roads.
A fort built by the Dutch (nothing is left, only a water reservoir is on top of the hill) and Bundo Kanduang Park.
From Teviot Falls lookout continue on.
Marble Arch, (Where the north-eastern point of Hyde Park meets the south-western tip of Marylebone).
Lehigh Valley International Airport ( serves the greater Lehigh Valley metropolitan area and is located about 10 to 15 minutes north of downtown Bethlehem by car.
Binghamton High School, location of the Helen Foley Theater, is located here, just across the Court St bridge from Downtown.
Sand Hills are the largest formation of sand dunes in the western hemisphere, and the largest area of grass-stabilized dunes in the world.
You don't need to drive through Geelong - from Barwon Heads take the Barwon Heads Rd which becomes Lower Duneed Rd then turn left onto the Surf Coast Highway.
The swimming Hall of Fame pool complex is one block back from the beach.
Butler Street from 34th Street to 62nd Street contains most of the shops, boutiques, art galleries, restaurants, and neighborhood-serving businesses.
Hostel Playa is a nice hostel with comfy beds and big kitchen 4 blocks away from the 5th avenue.
The geography of the island is typically mangroves; coral rimmed beaches; and rugged tree covered hills.
The trail to the cave passes through many rice paddies and a small section of jungle.
New Cathedral Facade New Cathedral Facade * The University - spread throughout the centre of Salamanca.
In nearby Pocitos, a beach suburb ,is a purpose built hostel with free breakfast, internet, kitchen, fireplace, backyard and the most friendly and helpful staff.
Walk around the English Renaissance Lullwater House and nearby Candler Lake (formerly Lullwater Lake).
Stagecoach bus services run to Brighton from Portsmouth, via Worthing, on service 700.
Shannon Falls Provincial Park - near British Columbia
It is also possible to get away from the main road and into the more remote rivers on board larger river cruisers for discovery cruises of the area in comfort.
Fishing - Whether you prefer reef, river, estuary, deep sea or coastal fishing, there are plenty of incredible locations within the Sunshine Coast to choose from.
The pebble beach gives way to a flat sandy seabed just below mid tide line so time your swimming to the low tide and avoid the painful feet.
Patralis, Kounoupitsa (on the water a ten minute walk west of the main Dapia harbor, near the Hotel Spetses), ?
As in all Provenal towns, the city center consists of narrow streets, lined with interesting buildings from 17th century hotels to paved plazas.
Helen Hocker Theater , also located in Gage Park, a quaint community blackbox theatre, regularly puts on plays and musicals, and specializes in children's camps.
Bethlehem Pennsylvania, located along the Lehigh River 50 miles north of Philadelphia and 70 miles west of Lehigh Valley metropolitan area, along with Easton.
The 'Snell Arcade' building houses some of the shops and restaurants that line Central Avenue in downtown St. Petersburg.
Public transport options from the centre up to Epsom Downs, or out to Ewell Village, consist of a reasonable bus network.
Emerges like a mirage, an oasis sat between the beautiful stretch of beach and famous sand dunes beside the East China Sea.
Located in a hilly area next to the Gurghiu mountains in eastern Transylvania, Sovata is a mid-size resort known for its salt lakes.
Lake Gunung Tujuh - South East Asia's highest crater lake and still surrounded by pristine forests and the marshlands of lake Bentau .
Briar Point Beach and Picnic Area, Located on Lake Tiogue, the end of Briar Point Avenue off Arnold Road.
Downtown shops and restaurants are steps from the path, as well as access to the Audubon Society.
There are numerous viewpoints, trails and campsites located along the Palisades.
Taking I-94 East (due north) will lead to Port Huron, Michigan or Sarnia, Ontario, Canada.
Ballantyne The most recent large-scale development in Charlotte, Ballantyne is located at the far southern edge of the city.
Further south from Kingscliff is the newish Salt real estate development featuring ocean front hotel, restaurants and bar.
Route 1 turns left onto 14th Street in front of the Washington Monument, although it is illegal for drivers to turn left at this intersection (instead, one must turn left onto 15th Street, left again at the second traffic light onto Jefferson Place, then right onto 14th Street).
The Casino Queen is located on the Illinois side of the Mississippi River in East St. Louis.
Nikiski * Ninilchik * Palmer - Alaska's first major farming community and lies in the Matanuska Valley about 40 miles north of Anchorage.
Jervis Bay Marine Park covers 100km of coast and adjacent waters, from Kinghorn Point in the north to Sussex Inlet in the south which encompasses Jervis Bay, Crookhaven Bight to the north and Wreck Bay to the south.
Chenango Street Main thoroughfare through Binghamton/Port Dick/Hillcrest on the east bank of the Chenango River.
Located in the rear part of the main Celas Maya Spanish school building/facility, a small hostel used primarily for student residency.
The road takes 1 1/4 hours from Rarangi to Picton giving periodically spectacular views over Port Underwood and points south.
Santa Claus Village at the Arctic Circle just north of Rovaniemi Santa Claus Village at the Arctic Circle just north of Rovaniemi
The U.S. Navy has a large naval station -- Naval Station Guam --located on the west-central part of the island near the village Agat.
Very close to the 'Piazzetta', this place is plenty of very good sweets but the best is their ice cream with just done/still hot cones.
Lloydminster is a city straddling the border between Alberta and Saskatchewan on Yellowhead Highway 16.
Wales' second city is less than an hour's drive from Merthyr.
Be prepared as this is a small two-lane highway with limited shoulder area and often has construction work in progress.
North Yorkshire Moors Steam Railway Pickering 18 miles (29 kilometres) through the Moors to famous coastal town of Whitby.
Multnomah Falls in the Columbia Gorge
The city's historic district and casino are easily accessible on foot from the public parking garage on North Second St. next to the courthouse.
The bus station (otogar) is outside of the city center.
Cold Springs- A beer distributor located off of Main Street tucked behind the Quakers & Friends building, this wooden distributor features a cold room, local beer, and fresh produce.
Rice fields are dwarfed by cliffs.
There are many bars and jazz clubs around Bleecker Street and MacDougal, as well as near lower Seventh and Sixth Avenues.
The park principally protects the largest freshwater marsh remaining in southeast Florida.
Beware of pickpockets at street markets, long queues, etc and do not flash too much cash, fancy mobile phones, expensive jewelry, etc. Do not walk alone in poorly lit areas, parks or near Valorio at night.
If you are travelling from Narita Airport to Narita City, the Retrobus tourist bus service makes seven daily runs to central locations and attractions within the city for 200; see 'Get Around' below.
Gray is in Maine.
Within a eighty to hundred kilometres of journey by land, one can travel from a flat flood plain with tropical rainforests and wet paddy fields to mountainous regions of Alpine-Himalayan climatic conditions at very high altitude.
The following countries have outlets on the Baltic Sea (moving clockwise) * Norway - Technically this country is on a inlet between the North Sea and Baltic Sea.
Muse du Cinma-Filmmuseum, Palais des Beaux-Arts-Paleis voor Schone Kunsten, 9 rue Baron Horta-Baron Hortastraat 9, 1000 Bruxelles-Brussel (Walk from Gare Centrale-Centraalstation), ?
An American seaman over 100 years ago disembarked one day from his merchant marine ship to a small fishing village in Davao Oriental.
The roads along the Elbe banks (including the bike path) may be covered with water and inaccessible.
The Long-distance Bus Station (Linja-autoasema) is located in the city centre.
Mengla is the southern gateway to Xishuangbanna, surrounded by untouched rainforest good for trekking.
Directions': Follow Air Base road and turn right onto elmcrest street at the intersection by the chevron.
If you think you have seen plenty of shrines in Japan, this one will still surprise you with its main shrine building which is at least 100m long.
Don't pay more than 50,000 dong for a 1.5L bottle of petrol, which can be bought in some of the small towns as well as near the port area near the end of the town.
A quieter, relaxed, much nicer spot further up the beach with better food, run by South Africans with Liquid Adventures PADI dive center on site.
Woodland is a city in the Southwest Washington region of Washington State.
Sea-Gypsy Village Known to the Thais as Chao-Le, sea gypsies have occupied the area for hundreds of years settling along the coast in stilt-built houses erected between the water level of high and low tide.
Highway 75 gives two lane access from the south and controlled four lane access from the north.
To/From Sumatra mainland, other Riau Islands: Batam's main domestic port is Sekupang, where you can ferries to/from the Sumatra mainland and other Riau Islands west of Batam.
The access road rises to about the 500 metre mark, and a graded switchback foot track continues to the top.
Puerto Aventuras Puerto Aventuras is about 20 minutes from Playa del Carmen.
Virginia Railway Express (VRE) provides weekday rail service to Union Station from the southwest, starting in the Virginia suburbs of Manassas and Fredericksburg.
Parnaiba is also located on the delta of the river of the same name and daytrips to see the fauna, flora and sand dunes of the delta are well worth the detour.
The city of Barrie is on the shore of Kempenfelt Bay, a part of Lake Simcoe and is the largest city in Simcoe County.
The drive (or boat ride) around Lake Erie takes you through the Working Waterfronts around Buffalo NY, Toledo, OH, and southern Ontario and is intermingled with beautiful preservations of flora and fauna as well as the history of North America's first westward expansion, the Old Northwest Territory.
Shephelah The fertile, hilly hinterland between the Coastal Plain and the Judean highlands.
When you exit the temple from the East gate and walk straight, around 200 metres towards the sea-shore you will find this place on the right hand side.
Catalina Island, For most of the year, there is daily boat service to Catalina on the Catalina Flyer, located on the Balboa Peninsula.
Fuego, 1721 West Brandon Blvd, Brandon (Just outside the Tampa city limits; Highway 60/Adamo Blvd becomes Brandon Blvd.
Killarney is on the Dublin-Tralee and the Cork - Tralee railways.
Barleys Stacks Wines, Minlaton-Maitland Rd, near Urania (13 km south of Maitland), ?
The curve itself will be straightened out to highway standards, and traffic will be separated prior to entering the curve.
Bouches-du-Rhne Vincent van Gogh was inspired by the countryside of this region.
Roedean School, Roedean Way, one of Britain's most famous and expensive girls' schools, the huge stone building looks out across the Channel.
The Capitol Limited comes from Chicago, passing through Alexandria, Virginia, very close to the King Street stop on the Blue/Yellow Metro lines.
Kankakee suburbs include the Villages of Momence, Sun River Terrace.
This charming house is set in 28 acres of wood and pasture and is in the heart of Killarney National Park.
Kinka is a 329-meter peak next to Gifu Park, with good views of the Nagara River and the city below.
Cafe Flowers, Avlabari Ascent (in the pink house overlooking Europa Square).
The horseshoe shape of the Chao Phraya River slowed down trading ships, and in 1542, a small canal was dug across the base of the meander to shorten sailing time.
Dahlonega - historic gold rush town, including the Dahlonega Gold Museum * Helen - created to resemble and Alpine Village, and nearby areas of Unicoi and Sautee-Nachoochee Valley.
Drive along the tar road and further along the dirt road until you reach the parking area near the buildings.
Drive south from the centre of town and turn right at the Dugandan Hotel where Mt French National Park is well signposted.
Complex terrain, throughout sub-four natural areas: the west (known under the Guinea) for the narrow coastal plain.
Reprinted Please specify source www.hysjw.cn We then followed a southward course and then west to reach the harbor and a marina somewhat hidden in Terry Cove, Orange Beach, Fl.
Shannan for the lowland tropical rain forest, mountain north savannah, originated from the mountain so hard Weng and Kavala River constitute Liberia - Cote d'Ivoire border.
Africa and Mozambique Attractions Mozambique Channel Mozambique Channel from the South Atlantic to the Indian Ocean maritime traffic arteries, a large part of the Persian Gulf oil to Europe through here in North America and strategic importance.
Superior natural conditions, with mountains, hills, plains and other terrain, lakes, rivers, forest cover of about 30%.
Free Travel Information www.hysjw.cn Physical Geography: Area 110,993.6 square kilometers (including river boundary waters).
Content source www.hysjw.cn Although the southern side of the River Run area.In front of Warm Springs Lodge...
Time:2010-02-15Source:Original Author:Ares Font:Africa travel Desert: Africa's continent-wide area of the desert area of about 1 / 3, to desert one of the largest continents.
Coconut Beach (COCONUT BEACH) Coconut Beach is located in Lagos (LAGOS) coastal open cities of the west, BADEGRY a very beautiful coastal beaches.
Administrative Districts: A total of 10 provinces, namely Greater Accra (Greater Accra Region), Ashanti (Ashanti Region), Brown - A Hafu Province ( - Ahafo region), central Province (central region), Eastern Province (eastern region), Walter Province (Volta Region), Western Province (western region), the eastern provinces (Upper East region), the western provinces (the Western Region), Northern Province (northern region ).
We saw a statue of a metal ball which is whats left of from the Twin Towers.Took the ferry across which ships 70,000 poeple a day to work.
Scope: mainland east Hafun angle (longitude 51  24 ', latitude 10  27'), south to Cape Agulhas (longitude 20  02 ', latitude 34  51'), west to Cape Verde ( W 17  33 ', latitude 14  45'), north to Guillain-angle (angle of the race card) (N 9  50 ', latitude 37  21').
Mountain passes between, the coastal and inland transport channel.
A: The main urban area, Xinghai Square attractions, Tiger Beach Ocean Park, Sun Asia Ocean Park, Binhai Road, Forest Zoo, to pay Village of Park, North Bridge, and downtown Zhongshan Square, Friendship Square, Victory Shopping Plaza, People's Square.
Time:2010-02-19Source:Internet Author:Ares Font:River the Singapore can trace its roots back to a humble fishing village on the banks of the Singapore River.
La Rambla Flower Shops: this place is in Barcelona.
Trees, pasture, some flower beds and benches were forming a large circle in which we children were playing and running around during break time between classes.
Mali, Senegal River is the second largest international rivers, the Senegal River and Niger River originate in the pagoda --- Zhalong Guinea highlands.
Time:2010-08-31Source:www.hysjw.cn Author:Ares Font:Greenwich World-famous British Observatory is located in south coast of England Suse Ke County Herstmonceux Castle.
Area: about 3020 million square kilometers (including nearby world's total land area of about 20.2%, behind Asia, the world's second largest continent.
Algeria Accommodation and Transport Land transport to the main road.
Nigeria Travel Guide Tourist Attractions Coconut Beach (COCONUT BEACH) Coconut Beach is located in Lagos (LAGOS) coastal open cities of the west, BADEGRY a very beautiful coastal beaches.
Climate: the coastal plains and tropical rain forest in southwest Asanti plateau climate, Walter Valley and the northern highland tropical steppe climate.
Africa is a continental plateau, relatively flat topography, a clear mountain range is limited to south ends.
During the rainy season, the sharp rise in the Senegal River delta region becomes a flooding rivers and lakes, plants clustered, proliferation of aquatic organisms.
Areas along rivers, lush vegetation, trees, shrubs vary.
Central (in Guinea) to an average elevation of 900 meters of the Fouta Djallon Highlands, West Africa three major rivers - Niger River, Senegal River and Gambia River were originated, is known as 'West Africa Water Tower.
Boat Quay is by far the most popular of the three areas.
A faint path leads to a deep, flanked by Ballot-style two three-tier small building, from time to time the high cathedral spire a blocked behind the scenery.
meter-high cliffs, waterfalls and wilderness, rugged rock shape to create a dramatic atmosphere.
Located in the southwestern coast of Guinea, near the east Atlantic, from Ross Island, kalum Peninsula and coastal land connected with the composition of the peninsula, is the largest seaport in Guinea, West Africa is one of the largest harbor.
Grasslands covered with branches and woody plant rice, the middle dotted with prickly acacia species.
Ships from China came out to the Nanpu Bridge Pavilion direction, first went to China's private enterprises Hall, Alibaba, ?????
Kennedy Bridge to the south over the east is a residential area, the west is the highest institution of the University of Niamey, Niger.
Volta Region: Volta River Volta River length 1,600 km, basin area of nearly 388,500 square km, flows through the Upper Volta, Ivory Coast and Ghana, the three countries.
Lake Chad Basin, the largest inland lake, with an area change from time to time.
The interior rock lined pit-type chambers are about 4.5-8m long, 0.8-1.2m wide, and 1.0-2.2m deep.
Other landscape enticements include countless rivers, forests, waterfalls, and parks, all lending themselves to numerous recreational possibilities such as camping, kayaking, sailing, fishing, water sports, boating, and hiking.
It mainly flows through the flat of Savannah grassland, river flat, dark green plants covered the riverbed, the river was dark green, hence the name Black Volta River.
m above sea level north-west over Mount mountain mountains and Venturi, 200-500 meters above sea level north of the low altitude, 50 meters above sea level in southeastern coastal lagoon plains below.
North Africa, usually including Egypt, Sudan, Libya, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco, the Azores, Madeira Islands.
Ba Luoci plateau is located in the interior of Africa, about 1,000 meters above sea level, summer, hot weather, the winter frost has occurred.
The rift zone of the lake water color blue, the vast mighty, ever-changing, not only is tourism the resort, and lake water is rich in fertile land, lake, lush vegetation, wild animals, elephant, hippopotamus, African lions, rhinoceros, antelope, fox Wolf, flamingo, eagle habitat are all here.
Park covers an area of 913 thousand hectares, altitude range of 16-311 meters flat, with a few 200 meters out in the hills, from the broad flood plains separated.
Stunning Halong Bay covers an area of 1553 sq km with her 3000 unshaped big and tiny limestoned islands rising from the emerald waters of the Tonkin Gulf.
Between the mountains and the eastern rift zone is wide, shallow basin, and more swamps.
Mali, Senegal River is the second largest international rivers, the Senegal River and Niger River originate in the pagoda --- Zhalong Guinea highlands.
Dalian urban areas (Tiger Beach, Bangchui Island, Sea Yun Park, Xinghai Square, Fu Jia Zhuang, the coastal road) from the city far behind?
These lakes elongated strip to start with into the beaded along the Rift Valley, the East African highlands to become a major beautiful.
Time:2010-10-31Source:www.hysjw.cn Author:Ares Font:Avenue des Champs Elysees Champs Elysees is the most beautiful streets of Paris, west to east from the Place de la Concorde Square, the star, is about 1,800 meters, 100 meters wide streets - the exact meaning Paradise Garden Avenue in the Place de la Concorde and th
Volta River, three tributaries, the Black Volta River, the White Volta River and the Red Volta River, respectively, on the Volta River originates west, north and central.
That weather is good, we went to terrace up observation, observation deck, under a huge move of the Aletsch glacier is Europe's longest glacier.
The northwest part of is called a low in Africa, more than 500 meters above sea level, most of the low plateau and basin, there are upper Nile basin, the Congo basin and the Chad Basin.
Judy Bird National Park Senegal Judy Bird National Park in Senegal, the Senegal River delta, 370 km north from the capital Dakar office, an area of 16,000 hectares of protected areas, water more than 800 hectares, is the world's seventh largest birds in nature reserves, t...
World-famous British Observatory is located in south coast of England Suse Ke County Herstmonceux Castle.
Time:2010-03-24Source:freetravelinformation.net Author:Ares Font:Into Town Weimar Germany, a small town, but was known as the heart of Germany, German Athens.
Time:2010-06-12Source:hysjw.cn Author:Ares Font:Kenya in Kenya in East Africa, Ethiopia, north east the Indian Ocean, west of Uganda, bordering Tanzania, the national area of about 582,646 square kilometers.
Africa's largest high mountain plateau more than standing in the coast there are the Atlas Mountains; the mountains; the eastern part of Mount Kenya and Mount Kilimanjaro.
Republic of South Africa, the Maghreb and other regions in Africa transport more developed areas.
And Europe, Asia and Africa with direct flights to many cities on three continents.
Calgary Calgary: Calgary (Calgary) also known as Calgary, is a village located in southern Alberta, Canada-based Mountains of the city, an area of 789.9 square kilometers, is about 1048 meters above sea level.
Judy Bird National Park in Senegal, the Senegal River delta, 370 km north from the capital Dakar office, an area of 16,000 hectares of protected areas, water more than 800 hectares, is the world's seventh largest birds in nature reserves, the world research base for the famous bird.
Central Africa usually include Chad, Central Africa, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, Sao Tome and Principe.
Time:2010-07-04Source:Internet Author:Ares Font:Senega National Judy Bird National Park in Senegal, the Senegal River delta, 370 km north from the capital Dakar office, an area of 16,000 hectares of protected areas, water more than 800 hectares, is the world's seventh largest birds in nature reserves, t
meters high mountain grassland, cattle and sheep grazing on the grass.
Time:2011-06-12Source:www.hysjw.cn Author:Ares Font:Tara River Canyon Bridge Tara River Gorge Bridge (Tara River Canyon Bridge), located in the northern territory of the Republic of Montenegro today Tara valley, the former Yugoslavia, the famous film Bridge(BRIDGE) in the shooting.
Royal Observatory Greenwich UK World-famous British Observatory is located in south coast of England Suse Ke County Herstmonceux Castle.
Throughout by topography is divided into five areas: north-east the Great Rift Valley area, southwestern Kalahari basin area, southeast of Luangwa - Malawi and the Central Plateau area Luangwa River basin area.
Kilimanjaro Hill is near the equator, due to its high altitude, the Peak snow.
Time:2010-04-12Source:Travelblog Author: Font:Heading Beach Heading out in the wilderness for 3 nights to South Ballina Beach.
Area: the territory of an area of 923,768 square kilometers Location: Located in West Africa, the South Atlantic Ocean to the Gulf of Guinea.
This would range from bizarre lunar landscapes and labyrinth caves to crystal clear waterways.
Located in the equatorial belt, a warm current from west to east flow of Guinea, hot and humid climate, water temperature 25-26 ?
Within the city walls around the old town, near the new port city, in the southern industrial areas and residential areas west.
Helsinki's most famous buildings to be located in the center of Helsinki Cathedral, Senate Square and its surrounding yellow neo-classical style of architecture.
Cacooned in the ship-wide, wood-paneled, green-marbled, book-lined library located on Deck 10, which overlooked the sea on either of its sides and the pool ahead of it, I wrote, periodic, suspended-moment contributions added to my ever-lengthening Cruise Log.
The decline in the east, from the mountain, moves toward the rugged Scotland District, while a sharp decline in the south leads to the St. George Valley.
Time:2010-02-18Source:Internet Author:Ares Font:Destinations - This capital city of France, situated on the banks of the Seine River in the north, has been an important center of cultural and commercial development for over two thousand years.
Time:2010-02-28Source:freetravelinformation.net Author:Ares Font:beautiful is Calgary Calgary: Calgary (Calgary) also known as Calgary, is a village located in south ern Alberta, Canada-based Mountains of the city, an area of 789.9 square kilometers, is about 1048 meters above
Elevation of 263 m, the flood came, the water separated into island hill, between the mound and the mound by the length of 4.5 km-long artificial causeway dovetail.
Avenue des Champs Elysees in paris Champs Elysees is the most beautiful streets of Paris, west to east from the Place de la Concorde Square, the star, is about 1,800 meters, 100 meters wide streets - the exact meaning Paradise Garden Avenue in the Place de la Concorde and th...
Tara River Gorge Bridge (Tara River Canyon Bridge), located in the northern territory of the Republic of Montenegro today Tara valley, the former Yugoslavia, the famous film 'Bridge'(BRIDGE) in the shooting.
In the local language, Nairobi is the 'cool place', city bonuses grass green, lush trees, the most characteristic is the large tracts of virgin forest just outside the reservation, an area of 115 square kilometers, the forest habitat of many world's The only city zoo.
Sahara is the world 's largest desert , an area of 7.77 million square kilometers; ther Desert: Africa's continent-wide area of the desert area of about 1 / 3, to desert one of the largest continents.
Ball back steep mountains, and now the city about four miles northeast of Baltimore with a thousand years old castle ruins, the walls in the ancient ruins dating back to the ninth century, legendary.
Area: 244,100 square km (including inland waters).
Geography: 41,528 square kilometers, is located in western Europe, east and Germany to the south of Belgium.
Mary King Street which is a narrow cobbled street is located in Edinburgh of Scotland.
Located in northwestern Europe, east Germany, southern border of France, western and northern borders with Belgium.
Outside the city and the city is divided into two parts, the inner city, outer city built on a hill, the wall 10 meters high, 5 meters thick, length 240 meters, built with granite stones.
In accordance with the overall plan, Zhoucun old mall is divided into protected areas, control areas, transition zone three major regions, and environmental capacity of the core scenic area of scientific measurement, development of personnel control measures.
Air mainly in Algiers, Oran, Annaba, Constantine 4 international airports, routes connecting 20 countries more than 50 international routes.
Time:2011-06-12Source:www.hysjw.cn Author:Ares Font:Ancient City Barr is the largest port city in the Republic of Montenegro, population 29,000, is the most important shipping channels.
Four hundred seventy miles off the coast of Newfoundland, the ship negotiated 3,549-meter-deep waters, having covered 607 nautical miles in the 24-hour period since yesterday, now 1,615 miles from Southampton.
My friends and I are spread all around South Korea at various branches.
The city was founded around 1700 AD, was once the ancient West Africa, one of the most powerful country the capital of the Ashanti kingdom, has always been for the Ashanti people's political, economic and cultural center of the city north-west some of the soil, wood grass structure, housing, Ashanti the last traces of ancient civilization.
Low-lying southeast to northwest, plain and hilly widespread.
Time:2010-02-04Source:iblogpost Author:Ares Font:Lik a Singapore, an independent city-state off the southern borders of the Malay peninsula, lays claim to a vivid and eventful history.
Many rivers, the Niger River and its tributaries as the main river Benue River, Niger River in the territory of 1,400 km long.
Southeast of Lake Chad Basin, southwest of the Niger River Basin than in low-lying terrain, the agricultural area; central multi-plateau, 500-1000 m above sea level, for the nomadic areas; north-eastern desert region, accounting for 60% of the national area.
Its land border with the Republic of Ireland border.
Content source www.hysjw.cn National Flower: Bougainvillea spectabilis Location: Located in central and southern Africa.
Time:2010-02-03Source:iblogpost Author:Ares Font:ana and Santa Ana is the best place to stop over if you're looking for contemporary pieces, historic sites and affordable accommodations near the airport and California State University.
After having a lovely stay in Cromwell visiting old Cromwell town and driving out to bendigo for an Ice cream and viewing the fleece of the famous sheep shrek we left for glacier country.
Located in the heart of Apeldoorn Netherlands, with a vast forest, while the former royal summer resort, 'Lo Palace' in this forest.
Strange and diverse terrain, territory plains, mountains, hills each about 1 / 3 of the land area.
The Luxembourg Garden, yet another de Medici creation, rests on the famous Rive Gauche, or left bank, of Paris.
The area here is a large peninsula with a narrow causeway to the mainland.
In Africa within the water system and free flow area of 9.58 million square kilometers, accounting for continent-wide the total area of 31.8%.
Dumi Leo often rare summer 'Summer Snow'arrives in northern Montenegro, located in Dumi Toll Mountain, elevation 1456 meters in Zabljak town was completely covered with snow.
Small station culture and business tourism area, Tianshan Sea World May 2010 small station built tourist area Jinnan District small station is located in the town to build an integrated commercial pedestrian street; and construction of the cultural park covers an area of 900 acres, 60,000 square meters indoor water park.
Location: The island country located in western Europe.
When Sir Stamford Raffles arrived at the Malay fishing village, he declared the region a free trading port.
Zambezi rises in northwest Angola and Zambia in eastern highlands, where the Congo River and the Zambezi River watershed, the Congo River with the Zambezi River in Heyuan in Heyuan less than 1 kilometer apart.
There are many rivers, lakes, ponds( at the moment, on a research, one square kilometer of land there is about 1.7 to 2 kilometer of river).
Time:2011-07-03Source:www.hysjw.cn Author:Ares Font:Black Church Black Church (Black Church) is located in the historic city of Brasov in Romania, for the Transylvania region's largest Catholic church, but also Southeast Europe's largest Gothic cathedral.
However, in the Zambezi river is dense, many tributaries, dangerous spectacular, watershed area, water is very rich and famous, its average annual flow of the estuary of 16,000 cubic meters / second, in Africa, next door to the Congo River second.
Time:2011-06-19Source:www.hysjw.cn Author:Ares Font:Colosseum The Roman Arena in Pula Croatia historic city center of the arena was built in Roman times, nearly 2,000 years of history.
In most areas throughout the plains, east ????? mountains south kwahu plateau, north gambaga cliffs.
Wide Zambezi River surging flows eastward to near Livingstone, suddenly cut back to 100 m deep valley Wang, Man-Jiang river like the falls, an avalanche, pouring down, straight bottom.
Throughout most of the plateau is located in Central Africa, many lakes, with an average elevation of 1000-1200 meters, the 'Plateau Water,' said.
Like no other German city, twenty monasteries and churches of the nuns monasteries are located in an area confined by the the city's Gothic walls, churches that are among the most significant in Western Europe.
Windsor Castle in the north-east sides of around-Home Park, Windsor Great Park in the south, there are forests, grasslands, rivers and lakes.
Loire length of 1 000 km, the basin area of about 12 million square kilometers; length of the Rhone River 800 km, basin area of 99,000 square kilometers; Seine length of 770 km, watershed area of 7.8 million square kilometers, most shipping and benefit; Garonne length of 650 km, basin area of 5.6 million square kilometers; Rhine flows through the territory.
Administrative divisions: The country is divided into 10 provinces (Far North province, northern province, Adamawa Province, Eastern Province, Central Province, Southern Province, Coast Province, Western Province, Southwest Province, North West Province), 58 states, 268 District, 54 counties.
We glimpsed our first sight of the famous rice terraces - stretching far up and down the mountain edges, a beautiful bright green.
Time:2010-03-03Source:freetravelinformation.net Author:Ares Font:Guide China Suzhou, located in the Yangtze River, Taihu Lake is the seat stretches of more than 2500 years, Shen Yun Wu culture, the ancient city of rivers and lakes.
Just southwest of the small town is a walking trail that leads to a forested playground of beaches separated by large cliffs jutting out to the ocean.
Kenya Geography and Climate Kenya in East Africa, Ethiopia, north east the Indian Ocean, west of Uganda, bordering Tanzania, the national area of about 582,646 square kilometers.
Valley (Wadi Bini Halid) By the Muscat south about 3 hours by Bora (Ibra) valley near the city of year-round water, clear and windy river, river bank covered with green date palm trees and other plant cluster, along the river scoured by the river long sides to form a steep mountain, the Oman people often do come to this valley BBQ fishing or swimming refreshing.
Situated at the heart of Jakarta, this monument was build by none other than the 1st Indonesian president, Soekarno.
Taxi At Nairobi (Nairobi), Mombasa (Dream Barcelona) and some other major towns in Kenya, everywhere convenient taxi service.
Time:2010-02-19Source:Internet Author:Ares Font:Kong Starting out as a humble fishing settlement on the banks of the Pearl River Delta, Hong Kong has rapidly grown into an economic and business powerhouse.
Durmitor National Park Dumi Toll National Park in northern Republic of Montenegro.
Magnificent main peak, with Albers mountains, the Pyrenees comparable fantastic bare pink granite peaks, valleys and winding outlined steep cliffs, like a crescent-shaped landscape.
Irony at its best South By Southwest We are on the road heading from the Gila Wilderness Lodge on a long, two-day trip to Austin.
Southeastern Arabian Sea near Muscat, Oman Gulf Northeast Pro, guarding the Indian Ocean, the gateway leading to the Persian Gulf, an important strategic position.
Guinea Bridal Veil Falls, located in Kindi suburb waterfall drops from the numerous small streams wide and Shu Zhang, she came round to hang from a cliff, the light and elegant, such as yarn Si Wu, a famous beauty of Africa.
Time:2010-11-10Source:www.hysjw.cn Author:Ares Font:Versailles Versailles is located 18 kilometers southwest of Paris, Versailles, famous the world, is a treasure house of human art, magnificent bright pearl.
Skadar Lake Lake Shkodra (Skadar Lake) in the Balkans (Balkan Peninsula) largest lake, which because of the beautiful scenery and rich flora and fauna is known.
The sand dunes by the sea , the SEA , eucalyptus groves that were planted to dry out the swampy areas by the sea , grain fields and more wildflowers and blooming trees...
Begin your journey at Astoria, where jewel-toned forest lands and rivers converge with Highway 101.
Reprinted Please specify source www.hysjw.cn Mashamala Wildlife World famous Mashamala Wildlife in East Africa's largest animal protection area, an area of 1670 square kilometers, a wide size, 95 species of mammals live here, and 450 species of birds, is the wildlife One animal sanctuary.
Time:2010-06-12Source:www.hysjw.cn Author:Ares Font:Kenya to Go to Kenya and Kenya has three international airports At Nairobi (Nairobi) Jomo Kenyatta (coke Mokenyata) International Airport Located in Mombasa (Dream Barcelona) and Moi (Moi) International Airport In Eldoret (the amount of Erduoleite)
Time:2010-04-04Source:Travelblog Author:Kingfish Font:glass and Today we travelled north east to the coastal beach town of Nazare.
River flows through the rainy highlands, the river flow rate, more rapids and waterfalls, there are more famous waterfall and Fellous guina waterfalls, etc.; River flows through the dry grasslands, river flow is small, small tributaries cross the riverbed slope slow, bend development; estuary due to drift and trade winds along the coast, forming the south slope of 400 meters wide and a large sand spit, become an obstacle to shipping.
Kena Ti landscape characterized by a significant growth of the local vegetation of the high rock cliffs and rocky coastal areas are covered by pastures, clear landscape layered geological material.
King Charles built many monuments, including St. Vitus Cathedral and Charles University, the oldest in central Europe.
Mykonos island has more than 300 small churches, walking on a narrow street between houses, each separated by a few houses or shops, they will encounter a small chapel, numerous.
All of them are surrounded by water in peaceful and beautiful lakes, ponds, rivers- The reason is that we have hot and rainy reasons, so lakes, ponds, rivers are used to keep water in rainy season but served like natural air-conditioning machine in summer.
Time:2010-02-19Source:Internet Author:Ares Font:Queen a Originating as a small trading post at the mouth of the Chao Phraya River it was given the status of capital during the Siam period.
facing the sea, side ring wall, wall was 10 feet deep and 20 feet wide trench isolation, shelves suspension bridge, great 'man guards the pass, 10,000 Fumo open' advantageous trend.
Time:2010-04-19Source:Travelblog Author:RoadHoppers Font:It Well Well, Oroville is the closest I could get to Republic for a location.
I huge cirque valley at the top (complete with 2.5m snowbanks remaining from the winter and Lebanon's biggest ski hill, The Cedars) slopes down into a rather steep sided canyon with many villages perched above.
In the slopes and hilly areas, as well as prominent rock, and at the ground, the impact of sand and iron plate, the plant shapes and sizes.
Time:2011-06-19Source:Internet Author:Ares Font:Brijuni National Park Brijuni Islands National Park (Brijuni National Park) is located in Istria's west coast archipelago comprises two large islands and twelve islands, thick forests, ancient oaks, pines and cypresses Avenue and a 1,600 age of olive trees - all
Here there is a 3-meter-high monument, written in Arabic and English above the archaeological zone by the United Nations World Heritage Committee Protection.
Time:2010-06-19Source:www.hysjw.cn Author:Ares Font:SmallTags: Welcome to Cape Verde Cape Verde is located in the heart of the Atlantic, located in Africa, the Americas and Europe, the crossroads of three continents, is a 10 islands and eight islets in the archipelago.
Time:2011-02-19Source:www.hysjw.cn Author:Ares Font:Dutch Palace Classical palace is located in this building the dam, is a 17th century building in the history of a miracle, a total of 13568 trees piles supporting the building.
This capital city of France, situated on the banks of the Seine River in the north, has been an important center of cultural and commercial development for over two thousand years.
The following August, the railroad tracks reached Mojave.
Water Treatment Local water is supplied from the California Aqueduct augmented by ground water sources
Former Darr homestead house (Yeager House) Located behind Trailer Park at 5335 Rosamond Blvd.
Then he rode freight and passenger trains on the Southern Pacific Railroad, which passed through the Antelope Valley.
When Nadeau shifted his freight route, Adelia Ward moved out of Willow Springs and opened a hotel in Greenwich, a short-lived settlement on the new railroad line west of present day Tehachapi.
Los Angeles was the Cerro Gordo mines' main supply point, and the silver hauled there would stimulate the tiny town's economy.
From basic desert thermals to the world-record supporting Sierra mountain waves, all can be accessed from area airports.
Desert Poppies More environmentally correct, the California Desert Poppy Preserve and nearby desert areas offer seasonal views of more poppies than you knew could exist.
Former Backus Ranch (now Moonraker Ranch) Located near 25th Street West and Backus Road.
Railroad Station Section Houses Site Located east of Sierra Highway at approximately Orange Street
While this mile-wide strip is starting to fill in, the bulk of development is happening west of the 14 (Antelope Valley) Freeway along Rosamond Boulevard, filling what was formerly farm/ranch country.
Buildings relocated from what is now Edwards South Base In 1957 Former hospital-Delano house on Truman Rd.
Another major transportation milestone came in 1968 when the Antelope Valley Freeway (California 14) was extended to Rosamond.
High School Campus Rosamond High boasts this centrally-located campus, shared with Hamilton Elementary school.
Old Downtown' (looking SSE) Bordered by the 14-Freeway in the foreground and to the rear by Sierra Highway & its parallel railroad track, this picture encompasses virtually the entire extent of the original town of Rosamond.
Today a part of Edwards AFB with public access cut off, Rosamond Dry Lake provided entertainment to pre-aviation Rosamond area residents.
Current Wayside Cafe Located on Sierra Highway.
Born into slavery, Charles A. Graves came west after the Civil War, started a cattle ranch in the Antelope Valley and became a leading citizen of Rosamond, building its first school and serving as its postmaster.
Wind Generation 'Farming' the wind off the nearby mountains is a thriving enterprise and worth a short drive to observe up close.
On Rosamond Boulevard downtown.
Rosamond today is growing primarily east-west along Rosamond Boulevard, which is barely visible as a street intersection in the background of the two photos.
The Hoyts, Cleveland natives, worked at Ezra Hamilton's Lida gold mine on Tropico Hill.
North of Mojave was a station called Forks of the Road near the present-day Randsburg Cutoff from Highway 14 where southbound travelers could veer off toward Tehachapi.
Former Johnson's Market (now KS Market) Located on Sierra Highway at Popular.
Building north of current Wayside Cafe (most recently was Tattoo Parlor) Located on Sierra Highway, This was the site of the Wayside Cafe prior to it's present location.
Graves Houses Located on Rosamond Blvd.
While the nearest hospital is in Lancaster, we have fulltime ambulance service.
Graves homesteaded 640 acres, of which 160 acres was the property at today's Rosamond Boulevard and 30th Street West.
Eventually 80 teams of three wagons, each pulled by 16 mules, hauled bars of silver bullion from the smelter at the shore of Owens Lake to the port at San Pedro.
On Sierra Highway, open 7 days Guido's What was previously The Skillet has morphed into Guido's Pizza & Pasta On Sierra Highway just S. of Rosamond Blvd.
Just north of Rosamond, the Soledad Mountain area was also extensively mined, and mines such as Elephant-Eagle, Asher, Yellow Dog and Golden Queen provided employment to hundreds.
BEFORE the coming of the railroad, a traveler headed north through the Antelope Valley would likely pass through the small settlement of Willow Springs about 8 miles west of Rosamond.
Rosamond is the gateway to Edwards Air Force Base, and is just south of the emerging civilian spaceport at Mojave.
Taco Bell is another choice, located only yards away, with Jack-in-the-Box just across the street.
When the Southern Pacific RR routed a new Los Angeles-to-San Francisco rail line by Sand Creek in the late 1870's, the settlement suddenly gained easy travel access.
The above street scenes depict a portion of the old 'main drag', the north-south Sierra Highway.
Rosamond Elementary The original 'Rosamond school' is just east of the freeway in 'old downtown' Baptist Church Rosamond has a fine selection of churches, no less than eleven, in fact.
bullet Town of Mojave: Our neighbors just to the north, Mojave and Rosamond may some day become twin cities like Lancaster/Palmdale.
Post office & Fire Station Our brand-new fire station replaces a WW-II era structure and is more centralized relative to the growing population.
Former Fisher House Located on 20th Street West behind construction yard at 2221 20th St. West.
View West From the 14 Freeway at the bottom of the picture you can see the path of westward development.
Surrounded by willow bushes that gave them their name, the springs had provided water for Native Americans for centuries.
Initially, the settlement was off the beaten path, which in those days was a stage route running through Willow Springs a few miles west.
This house was on the land acquired when the Base expanded and took over the Darr homestead.
Primary road access from Los Angeles is via the 14-Freeway
After securing a small payment of money, he headed west looking for a place to raise cattle.
bullet City of Lancaster: Our neighbors to the south.
Angel (or Angell) House Located on Poplar east of Diamond.
Newer Housing (looking S.) Turning to the right from the 'downtown' view, this picture starts to show a bit of the checkerboard of new housing developments that are growing west of the freeway.
A month later, in September 1876, the tracks to Los Angeles were completed through Soledad Canyon, making long-distance stagecoach travel across the Valley obsolete.
Upper center is the runway and row of white hangar buildings of the Rosamond Skypark, our town's civilian airport and a fly-in housing development.
Per Gladys Adams, this was the site of the post office when she came in 1952.
Former O'Neill House Located north side of Rosamond Blvd.
When gold was discovered in the area, Graves staked two claims, which he named Home Number 1 and Home Number 2, because they were close to his home.
Each round trip took eight to nine weeks,' according to Bureau of Land Management geologist Larry M. Vredenburgh, who writes about the history of mining in the Mojave Desert.
In 1900, Los Angeles clayware factory owner Ezra Hamilton, who four years earlier had found gold on a nearby butte and opened what became the Tropico mine, bought Willow Springs and the surrounding 160 acres.
To our south are the twin cities of Lancaster & Palmdale.
Von Blon's article, published in the same English magazine that printed Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes stories, repeats what sound like exaggerations: the sail wagon had traveled 40 miles across the desert in 80 minutes; the Hoyts used it to travel to work every day from their home on the east shore of Rosamond Dry Lake.
There were two stations in Soledad Canyon, then one at Barrel Springs just south of present-day Palmdale, then another at a place called Cow Holes, then Willow Springs.
Just north of town at Mojave the Navy built an airfield and carried out extensive training for Navy & Marine pilots.
In the late 1860s, even more travelers, miners and mule teams began stopping at Willow Springs with the discovery of silver at Cerro Gordo, in the Inyo Mountains above Owens Valley.
Suspension of gold mining by the government during WWII was a blow that most operators never recovered from, but a limited amount of mining continues in the area to this day, such as the recent proposal for expanded recovery operations at the Golden Queen.
The Kern County assessor put him in touch with Burton Brothers Inc, owner of Tropico, who donated a tunnel, of which the mine had approximately 10 miles worth.
MEADOW FLAT is situated on the Great Western Highway between Wallerawang and Yetholme (between Bathurst and Lithgow).
Dark Corner was a small settlement about half a mile from Sunny Corner (also known as Mitchell) off the Great Western Highway between Bathurst and Lithgow.
Bathurst is the oldest inland city in Australia - older in fact than Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth.
It is a four storey, forty-roomed, granite mansion rising from a hill in the middle of farming paddocks just west of Bathurst.
In flood time this made a second stream quite as strong and deep as the river itself.
One of these floods gave an expanse of water extending from the bottom of Hereford Hill to Esrom House.
The Anglican Parish of Holy Trinity Kelso (just east of Bathurst) was established in 1825 with the appointment of the first Rector, the Reverend John Espy Keane.
The Government doctor at Bathurst had a round, embracing the whole of the Cox River and Mount Victoria districts; and the Bathurst hospital was full to overflowing--as many as fifty patients being housed at a time; passages, wash-house, and the mortuary all being used as wards.
It was a remote, isolated, inward-looking community cut off from ready contact with larger towns by many kilometres of mountainous road.
The second goldfield to be discovered in Australia, it was one of the major gold-mining areas of colonial New South Wales.
Prior to his being consecrated Bishop the whole of the settled areas of Australia was in the Diocese of Calcutta, India, where the nearest Bishop resided.
It is off the Main Western Highway between Bathurst and Lithgow.
She was Mary Josephine Russell (nee McGrath), born at Perthville, 1918.
The Milltown Public School was built in Bant Street in 1879.
The Village of O'Connell (sometimes called O'Connell Plains in early records) is situated about 20 miles from Bathurst on the road to Oberon.
The first gold discovery was made at Golden Point a quarter of a mile east of the present village three weeks after the Ophir strike in 1851.
The book includes of detailed map of the Turon-Sofala area with approximate sites of known gold mining activity.
Bit by bit this garden was swept away, until but a narrow strip stood between the bank and the house; and then came the end, when a slight fresh undermined the bank, and the house followed its fruit trees and flowers down the river.
This book is directed towards the preservation of the history of the Fitzgerald's Valley and surrounding districts.
In '55 the Denison and Eglinton bridges were opened, and in June, '67, the Denison Bridge was swept away, and in its career down stream, carried away the bridge on which Mr. Ranken had expended much time and money.
The Victoria Mill in Keppel Street, Bathurst was bought by William Tremain in 1874, eleven years after the foundation of the family company.
The neighbouring town of Sofala has received far more attention despite the similarity in the heritage both towns share.
It also includes a list of more than three thousand children born in the area from 1856 to 1893 (parents names are not given).
This took place on the Sydney Road near Fryingpan, on a dark night, when two men rushed out upon him, seized his horse, and bade him 'Bail up'!
As the settlers began to arrive in the Bathurst district in the mid 1800's to select the isolated portions that remained unoccupied or to purchase land as it was proclaimed as Torren's Title small communities developed - such as George's Plains, Fitzgerald's Valley, Perthville, Evans Plains, Gresham, Newbridge, Kings Plains, Cow Flat, and Caloola.
It covers not only Bathurst and its environs but also other circuits covered by Bathurst, including Carcoar, Parkes, Orange, Molong etc.
It contains details of the history of gold discovery in Australia, and also tells the story of all the big and little towns and villages.
However from 1880 to 1910 it was a booming mining town with a number of mines, huge smelters, eight hotels, three churches, two schools, two banks and a variety of shops as well as its own newspaper.
In the thirties however, and for long after, fringes of the fine swamp oaks on both banks gave it a charm which one must now travel miles up or down to find.
Published: October 2004 Holy Trinity Church at Kelso, is the oldest church west of the Blue Mountains in Australia and the oldest consecrated church in Australia.
In roughly 100 years from 1823, when the first land grants were made in the Parish of Peel, to the mid 1920's when motorised travel was beginning to change the world and the end was in site for the village store and post office and hotel, thousands of people made the fertile valleys surrounding Peel their home.
There are many photos and maps of the area including, one showing the mines around Burraga.
is based in the city of Bathurst in New South Wales, Australia.
This book gives information about the Rectors of Kelso and their families.
One occasion comes to memory, when the bread and meat contractor, who lived at Kelso, being suddenly cut off by a flood, hit on a novel method of delivering his stores.
Bathurst is the oldest inland settlement in Australia and is located about 200 km west of Sydney.
permalink December 26, 2010 Your posts and photo have brought much joy and pleasure to this Londoner in exile (only in the South West but in a tiny village) in recent months.
On this promontory is a new sea mark, erected by the Trinity-House men, and at the publick expence, being a round brick tower, near eighty foot high.
Enfolded by its lofty garden wall, containing huge exotic shrubs and dripping with climbing plants, this finely proportioned cluster of buildings rises with tall attenuated chimneys, like some mysterious castle of romance.
Out on the shore, Keith introduced me to the engineer Phil Abbott who showed me the oldest vessel still in use, a steam-powered straight-racing boat with the chic melancholic name of "All alone" from 1920, beside it sat "Yvonne" a high-speed steam-powered straight-racing boat from 1947.
They're all moving east," he says and he means out to Dagenham rather than back to Bangladesh.
John Thomson's Street Life in London
The Huguenot speciality "fish & chips" appear at Britain's first fish & chip shop on Club Row.
Nearby Bagnigge Wells House, home of Nell Gwyne, a black woman called Woolaston sells spring water from a fountain known as "Black Mary's Hole.
there are flea markets everywhere in europe - france, germany, finland, sweden...
Julian Duplain permalink October 26, 2011 I live at the eastern end of John Pritchard House in Buxton Street, diagonally opposite the old maternity hospital, so this development will have a direct effect on my living environment.
Also the Library in South London, Borough area - it was the area where either Mr Yale or Mr Harvard came from has a brilliant collection in the Library - well worth a look.
At low tide, we reached Mast Point where Steve finds whole clay pipes.
Next time you visit Columbia Rd Flower Market, once you have admired the infinite variety of plants on display, walk West until you come to the Hackney Rd.
Within two years, Colin left to run a fruit and vegetable at Globe Town Market Sq in the Roman Rd for the rest of his working life.
Up until recently, Underwood Road was a beautiful, tree-lined street bordered by lovely old brick buildings.
Over these years, Barbara has lived in the tiny flat with river views perched precariously up on the top, and connected to the pub by a fine seventeen-twenties staircase.
Wellclose Square was once a fine square between Cable St and the Highway, which barely exists any more.
A twilight zone where the shops built underneath the post-war housing blocks were still selling goods from a past age.
This lasted until 1980 when I started out for myself and created Barfoot Ltd, a wholesale fish distribution centre in Rotherhithe where we did fish preparation for hotels.
Paul Butler on Cable Street by Jeremy Freedman 2011
I've never been to South America or Africa.
Pastor Gerald Daley came from Wales to the Strangers' Rest in 1981 and has lived all these years with his wife Marion in the small flat attached to the chapel.
Travelling up river from Cookham, between banks heavy with deep green foliage and fields of tall golden corn, it was a sublime way to pass a Summer's afternoon.
good-tree permalink August 5, 2011 Great story, I look forward to visiting St. Dunstan church when I'm next in London.
Only 2 Spanish ships, and one English-built ship which was re-taken from the French, ever made it back to Portsmouth or the Medway.
The House Mill at Three Mills Island, a tidal mill built on the River Lee in 1776.
Nice eight mile walk from the RSPB reserve at High Halcrow.
You walk up Hanbury St and the three storey heron appears around the corner.
St Peter's School, with its gleaming golden ship as a weathervane, is the only building of note today, though early photographs reveal that many distinguished buildings once lined Wellclose Square, including the Danish Embassy, conveniently situated for the docks.
King Edward VIII officially inaugurates Boundary Estate from a platform on Navarre St.
We got back in the car and drove further East.
I live in France, the Limousin, all summer, then in Northumberland all winter.I was born within the sound of Bow Bells.
Thomas Simpson opened his "Fish Ordinary Restaurant" in 1723 in Bell Alley, Billingsgate, serving meals to fish porters, before moving to the current site in Ball Court, serving the City gents who have been the customers ever since.
The obvious ones are those at Garden Barge Square up near Tower Bridge.
We walked miles along the water's edge in the centre of London and the only others we met were two friends of Steve's, also searching the shore.
Ivan Kingsley on Hythe Beach with family
Inspired by Lucinda Douglas-Menzies' photo essay on the Victoria Model Steam Boat Club, I walked over to Victoria Park yesterday to meet Keith Reynolds, the secretary, a sympathetic man with an appealingly straggly moustache, who had agreed to let me take a look at the club's photographic collection.
A sense of peace borne of mutual trust presides over this couple here in this quiet flat, looking down upon the old square.
I carried out some historical detective work some time back on a family that used to live on College Hill in London during the 17th Century and discovered athat a Peter Vandeput (merchant) sold Pattens?
Out of all the historic riverside pubs, this tiny place dating from 1585, has best retained its idiosyncratic personality and modest charm, still resembling The Six Jolly Fellowship Porters in "Our Mutual Friend," for which it is believed Charles Dickens took The Grapes as his model in 1865.
On Sunday afternoon, the Pearly Kings & Queens came together from every borough of London and gathered in the square outside the Guildhall in the City of London for a lively celebration to mark the changing of the seasons.
Visitors to James Fryer's land at Friar's Mount wrongly assume a monastery stood there.
A concrete terrace extends along the front with a sandstone retaining wall.
A curving red brick path leads to steps at the centre of the verandah.
A fine beach was nearby and there were ample homesites, their cheapness compensating for the lack of sewers and made roads.
A Grafton-Glen Innes line, for instance, was included in the Dibbs 1884 railway policy, but ultimately his rival Henry Parkes, worked out a compromise whereby a railway was built instead from the Tweed to the Clarence Rivers, connecting the rival ports with their immediate hinterlands.
A large living area open to the main level and a deck were created about a metre lower than the main floor level, with a new timber stair to ground level.
A new brick garage was built on the site of the 1930s asbestos one, with the brick wall carrying along the east rear wall, maintaining a good height for privacy.
A second earth station linking Australia with Japan, the western Pacific, and the US opened at Moree in New South Wales in March 1968.
A shed was the first structure to be built at Warwick Street.
A village of 1,397 people in 1851, the opening of Mort's Dock in 1855 began a process of transfer from the city and expansion of Sydney's ship maintenance and construction industry to the suburb.
A water tank against the back wall was still in use in the 1950s, long after piped water was connected in 1924 (the same year electricity was first supplied).
Adelaide was the pioneer of the lasting Australian tram system, with the first horse line opening in King William Street in 1878.
Although not the longest arch span in the world, its mass and load capacity are greater than other major arch bridges, and no other bridge in Australia compares with its technical significance.
And before the brick wall went up a concrete swimming pool went in.
and is significant for its sheer size as this deep groundwater system covers a fifth (22%) of the Australian continent.
Anyone can nominate a place with outstanding heritage values, to the National Heritage List, including the Australian Government Minister for the Environment, Heritage and the Arts and the Australian Heritage Council.
Apart from the three main roads into the interior from Sydney, during the nineteenth century most roads in southern Australia were in poor condition during winter.
As early as 1929 LASCO designed and built Australia's first all-metal aircraft, the Lascoter which operated his Cootamundra to Mildura route via Junee, Urana, Berrigan, Tocumwal and Echuca.
As one of the closest areas to Sydney, Patonga was attractive to holidaymakers travelling across the Hawkesbury by boat but it was protected from large-scale tourism by the lack of road or railway access.
Australia's first electric telegraph connection ran from Melbourne to the nearby port of Williamstown, the first message being received in March 1854.
Based on a system developed near New York to separate pedestrian and motor traffic in new housing estates, Radburn estates were built in a number of Australian cities, especially Sydney and Canberra.
Because mound (artesian) springs are surrounded by arid country, the springs are the primary source of permanent fresh water within this desert environment and have been so si nce the late Pleistocene (Kreig 1989).
Behind the privet hedge, much taller now than in its government-managed days, a cottage-style garden has been created with perennial plants, bulbs, flowering shrubs, specimen trees and a small patch of grass.
Broome was famous for the extremely wide variation in tides, requiring an exceptionally high jetty to cope with the close to ten-metre variation between high and low water.
Burke and Wills Clump near Lake Boga.
By comparison, it took about 30 hours from Sydney to Brisbane by train at the time on the inland route via Wallangarra, and passengers had to change trains at dawn and travel in unheated carriages over Australia's highest railway summit, where winter night-time temperatures were generally well below freezing.
By then Sydney's tram traffic in the morning peaks frequently approached gridlock in the city, as tram after tram from the suburbs, especially the Eastern Suburbs, poured into its narrow streets.
By this time Chesters himself had moved to Subiaco.
Captain Charles Sturt resolved the early mystery of the westward-flowing rivers in 1829.
Carrum would never be a salubrious suburb because it was flat and flood-prone, but the area had useful community facilities, including a primary school, and later, a high school.
Charles Todd (1826-1910), the very eager and talented South Australian Superintendent of Telegraphs who had successfully connected South Australia to Melbourne by electric telegraph in 1865, was in charge of the project.
Clive, originally from Scotland, works with the Australian Taxation Office in the city.
Concentrate priority weed control in the least disturbed areas of native vegetation, giving high priority to weed eradication in creeklines.
Dredged river mud connected the island to the mainland, leaving only lower Throsby Creek and a Basin for the ships.
During the 1870s the great droving routes were established in an arc across the north of the continent, linking the Kimberleys in Western Australia, through the cattle country of the Northern Territory and the Gulf Country of Queensland, and the western railheads of the Queensland and New South Wales Railways; and to the northern railheads of the South Australian and even the Victorian Railways.
During the chaos of post-war Germany, she and Antoni and Adam had been shunted from transit camp to transit camp for four years, sometimes without enough time to unpack before being moved on again.
E.B.M. James, The Overland Telegraph Line: from Katherine to Tennant Creek and Alice Springs, Canberra, Australian Heritage Commission, 1984.
Equally predictably, Australia's first tramway was in that city.
Eric and Doris Fairs' house stands 10 kilometres north east of the Perth city centre in the suburb of Embleton.
Even the bulk of the pearling luggers for service in far-away Broome and Thursday Island were built on the shores of Berry's Bay and Lavender Bay in North Sydney, although some were also built in Fremantle (where there were also good timber supplies nearby) and even on Thursday Island itself.
Every year more than 800,000 visitors come to Grampians National Park (also known as Gariwerd by local Indigenous people) drawn to the spectacular high plateaus and sheltered gullies, rock formations, waterfalls and streams, lookouts, woodlands, wetlands, and fern gullies.
Finally, Warwick Street rises steeply towards the Knocklofty Hill, ending at Lansdowne Crescent.
For this was where the North-South and East-West routes intersected.
From 1853, the colony's roads were the responsibility of Victorian Central Road Board, which in its brief existence built good, all-weather roads to the goldfields, as well as a number of roads around Melbourne.
Grain, wool and tobacco were produced with Richlands wheat fetching premium prices in Sydney.
Grey box-ironbark woodland, typical of the shale woodland types is endemic to the Cumberland Plain of the western Sydney region and predominates throughout the place.
Groundwater dating research has found that water in the furthest areas from the recharge areas has been moving through the GAB's porous rock strata (aquifers) for up to a million years.
Gwenda Painter, A Different River: river trade and development along the Murray Valley network, South Melbourne, Hyland House, 1983.
He prospered through trade, timber cutting and cattle grazing on the large areas of land he had acquired around the Maroochy River.
Histories of Australian suburbia (Monash University, Clayton, 1995); and a chapter in Patrick Troy's History of European housing in Australia (2000).
Holsworthy is an outstanding heritage region close to Sydney, Australia's largest metropolitan area, set aside as a Commonwealth military training area.
Horatio Jones' house of bush timber and flattened kerosene tins was constructed in Melbourne's Dandenong Ranges soon after World War One.
Horse buses ran to what were then rural localities such as Belmore, Hornsby and Ryde, although generally only a couple of times a day and carried mail as well as passengers.
Horse-powered, it ran from the city's rather inconvenient railway station to Circular Quay along Pitt Street and opened in 1861.
Horses continued to be used to haul hansom cabs about Australia's cities for another decade, but in the 1920s the era of horse-powered passenger transport came to an end.
However, after 1900 more branch railways were built into the Riverina, and roads were always improving, enabling first horse teams and then motor lorries to oust the slow and ponderous bullocks.
Hunter River producers found it far easier to ship through the port of Newcastle, an easy trip across fairly level terrain, rather than use Mitchell's road to Sydney.
In 1908 when land in the Nedlands Park Estate was first released for sale, the area was promoted as 'Perth's riverside resort'.
In 1928 Charles and Florence Harper and their three children, moved to their new home in Nedlands.
In 1994, the Icebergs' clubhouse and pool area at the southern end of the beach was in a poor state of repair including waterproofing problems and concrete cancer.
In addition, from the Clarence north coastal rivers were used for the haulage of cut sugar cane from riverside farms to mills.
In addition, land within the city may be zoned into one of three non-urban conservation zones, ranging from high value sites to lower value sites.
In keeping with early town practice the front is set back only one metre from Maud Street and the side wall is right on the Alfred Street boundary.
In October 1966 the American space exploration agency, NASA, opened an earth station at Carnarvon in Western Australia.
In the late 1950s, young trees and lawn, a 'nature strip' leading down to a wide street, a floral frock and a boy in the gravel.
In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, however, Pyrmont and Ultimo were thriving industrial suburbs threaded with streets of terrace housing.
Indeed, at this time most river traffic on the South Australian section of the river by then was gravel crushed to build the weirs and locks.
Iris Iwanicki is a fifth generation South Australian living in a 1960s house perched on the edge of the hills overlooking the city of Adelaide.
It comprises a strip of sparsely wooded upland country from the Tarlo River rising to Australia's Great Dividing Range.
It is defined by ridges and valleys falling to the Lane Cove river from the high ridge running northward carrying the Pacific Highway.
It runs along the western boundary of the steelworks with many streets named after other steel towns or steelworks - Lackawanna, Birmingham, Newcastle, Steel and Bethlehem.
It was the largest geographic area assessed for the NHL to that time and covered over 1.6 million hectares of public land in eleven national parks and reserves in ACT, NSW and Victoria: Brindabella National Park, Bimberi Nature Reserve, Tidbinbilla Nature Reserve, Scabby Range Nature Reserve, Alpine National Park, Kosciuszko National Park, Namadgi National Park, Snowy River National Park, Avon Wilderness, Mount Buffalo National Park, and Baw Baw National Park.
Its aim was to shift the crowds from Sydney's inconvenient railway station on the city's fringe to the International Exhibition in the Domain.
Its first railway was 12-mile (19-km) line built to carry timber from logging camps to the navigable waters of Geographe Bay near Busselton in the colony's southwest.
Its last ship in the trade, the passenger-cargo MV Minnipa, left Port Lincoln for the last time in 1960.
Its original base, astride the main air route from Darwin to Sydney and Melbourne (and hence from England to Australia), gave it the edge when the time came to tender for the first regular England-Australia airmail services.
Its range of landscape features-from moist landscape in the east to dry plains in the west-provides important habitat for a rich diversity of plants and animals.
King William Street was Adelaide's first thoroughfare to be wood-blocked, using Western Australian jarrah, in 1908.
Like most of the small towns along the Bay, Carrum in 1945 was ready to blossom as a suburb.
line ~line An image of the Female Factory c 1900 facing south west shows the buildings in~ Yard 4 North, their relationship to the Matron's cottage in Yard 4 South, with the buildings in Yards 1, 2 and 3 in the bac kground.
line ~line At first Cascades Female Factory consisted of one large yard containing staff quarters, convict dormitories, the chapel , 12 solitary cells, nursery, hospital, kitchen, and separate areas for punishment class, crime class and hiring class.
line ~line GAB artesian springs, such as Witjira-Dalhousie Springs, hold plants and animals that have evolved into new species found nowhere else.
line ~line The high exterior walls surrounding Yards 1, 3 and 4 South remaining at Cascades Female Factory demonstrate the need to isolate convict women from negative influences and in turn protect society from their corrupting influence.
line ~line The open forest, located on the lower slopes in sandy, duplex or lateritic soils, is dominated by jarrah and marri trees.
Local street names proclaim the wartime patriotism which inspired the building of this cottage at 38 Kalgoorlie Street, near Anzac and Britannia Roads, not far from Federation Street.
Locations included Ipswich near Brisbane, Townsville, Islington near Adelaide, Midland near Perth, and Launceston.
Lovell Chen has identified potential surviving footings from the nursery/dayroom building, northwest toilets block, shelter shed, shelter shed garden beds, northeast apartments building and yard space (2007, pp.
Malcolm Thompson, Rails through Swamp and Sand: a History of the Port Adelaide Railway, Adelaide, Port Dock Railway Museum, 1988.
Many museums or heritage sites try to use buildings moved from another location.
Mary Shelley Clark, Ships and Shores and Trading Ports: the social and working life of coastal harbour and river towns in New South Wales, Sydney, Waterways Authority of New South Wales, 2001.
Monitor the rate of spread of weed species and the competition effects of pest plants and animals on native species within the park.
Moreover, in 1912 the Commonwealth decided to build the Transcontinental Railway from Port Augusta to Western Australia to standard gauge.
Much the same phenomenon as Australia's railway boom happened at exactly the same time in India, Canada and Argentina.
Nestled on the hillside overlooking Launceston and the Tamar River sits a cottage amidst rambling gardens.
Nor could the Birdsville Track compete with the well-watered and well-maintained New South Wales stock routes, except for the isolated cattle stations in Queensland's extreme southwest.
Northern Territory Advisers service large areas going well beyond single council boundaries.
O'Connor, Pam and Brian, In two fields: Soldier Settlement in the South East of South Australia, The SE Soldier Settlers Committee, Millicent, 1991.
Of these rivers, the Clarence and Richmond Rivers were the most important, although there was a sizeable trade on the Manning and Macleay Rivers as well, and even the smaller rivers were served by tiny ocean-going steamers manned by extremely plucky, if not downright foolhardy crews.
Offering a chic and casual lifestyle for singles, young couples and retirees, a huge wave of flat (and bungalow) development washed across the municipality, burying the Victorian village under a 1920s red and brown brick suburb.
On the northern (lane) side, the little room of baby Tom's years lost its exterior wall, which was pushed out to the perimeter of the property, creating a large study with a separate western external door and with medium-height windows.
One of these underground railways would emerge from its tunnels at the northern end of the city and leap over Sydney Harbour on Bradfield's stupendous steel arch railway bridge - the largest such bridge in the world.
Out in the eastern goldfields, on the edge of the mighty Nullarbor Plain, were Australia's most isolated tramways.
Over time the softer sediments surrounding the granite have eroded, forming the peaks, domes and ravines visible today.
Peter Taylor, An End To Silence: The Building of the Overland Telegraph Line from Adelaide to Darwin, Sydney, Methuen, Australia, 1980.
Prime Minister Andrew Fisher turned the first sod at Port Augusta, the railway's eastern terminus in South Australia, in February 1912, just two months after the authorising act was passed, and Deane, together with his successor and first Commonwealth Railways Commissioner Norris Bell, built the railway 1051 miles (1682km) across the desert in just five years.
Prior to this there was only a sandy track between the two places, as most traffic to Darwin went by sea.
Queensland and Commonwealth Railways matched the New South Wales precedent in their different ways, Queensland building a series of long-distance air-conditioned trains to take over major through services on the coastal route from Brisbane to Cairns, and on the inland routes into the interior from Brisbane, Rockhampton and Townsville.
Rather repeater stations were established at Charlotte Waters and Blood Creek, north-west of Witjira-Dalhousie Springs.
Ravenswood, the oldest inland town in northern Queensland, is now a sleepy relic of the goldrush days, but at the turn of the century it was a thriving community with its mining company names listed in the financial pages of the London newspapers.
Remnant vegetation along Mulgoa Creek and its tributaries provides links with the nearby Blue Mountains National Park.
Review the possibility of allowing horse riding on appropriate routes after the conclusion of the Review of Horse Riding Trails in the Mt Lofty Ranges.
Ronald Parsons, Steamships to the Illawarra: the development of the steam ship service south of Sydney, Lobethal SA, The Author, 1991.
Rural roads' main transport functions were confined to local needs, taking produce to the nearest railway station or port.
Rutherford set up coach building works in Bathurst and later in Brisbane and Charleville, a long way from the Company's Melbourne origins.
Saddle horse and pack animals were used where terrain was rough in colonial Australia, and have been used ever since when necessary and appropriate.
She sailed often to Australian ports during the war, and left Sydney for the last time with a load of cement bound for Wellington on 17 April 1947.
Shippers increasingly preferred to rail goods from the interior direct to the saltwater wharves at Newcastle.
Shortly after the Howe farm purchase the headquarters of the Macarthurs' Argyle estate was moved from Taralga to Richlands.
Some GAB artesian springs have associated discharge mounds that consist of mud, but most of the springs deposit calcium carbonate, especially the discharge springs, or other salts from the mineral-rich waters discharging from the springs.
Some GAB artesian springs have associated discharge mounds that consist of mud, but most of the springs, especially the discharge springs, deposit calcium carbonate or other salts from the mineral-rich waters discharging from the springs.
Sometimes public and defence broadcasters shared facilities, as in Canberra where ABC station 2CY was established in 1938 associated with the facilities of the Royal Naval Transmitting Station in Belconnen.
South Australia, though, was the only place in Australia that laminated timber arches were used with any success, and Australia's last such bridge survives there at Angle Vale near Gawler.
Stock routes led from Queensland south through Hungerford on the New South Wales -Queensland border to Bourke and further south to Hay, Deniliquin and Echuca.
Such commercial traffic as there was went by boat along the Parramatta or Hawkesbury Rivers, while other transport was by saddle horse or dray along bush tracks.
Tarragindi was still a bush suburb when English-born William Stanley Camp (Bill) and his Belgian wife Blondine Josephine Louise (Blondie) bought the house in 1937, naming it Joslaine from her second name and that of their second daughter.
That same year, Todd completed his last great pioneering work, the telegraph connecting Perth with Adelaide and the rest of eastern Australia.
The Aboriginal archaeological sites include old camps, stone arrangements and stone knapping sites.
The area contains a large and diverse range of more than 530 known Aboriginal sites.
The area's diverse vegetation types include a substantial remnant of Cumberland Plain woodland, of which only 6% of the original area is thought to survive.
The Australian Heritage Council found Grampians National Park (Gariwerd) in central western Victoria of outstanding national heritage significance for its Indigenous rock art sites, its richness of flowers and birdlife, and its rugged beauty which has inspired significant Australian artists.
The Australian Heritage Council has officially welcomed the addition of the west Kimberley to the National Heritage List.
The big ship building and repair businesses, though, were of course in the big ports such as Melbourne, Hobart, Brisbane, Adelaide, Newcastle and, above all, Sydney.
The Branch did not open Tasmania's first aerodrome, at Western Junction near Launceston, until 1930.
The coastline from Lorne to Kennett River is among the world's most dramatic cliff and ocean scenery able to be viewed from a vehicle.
The Crescent follows a contour, making it more or less level with a steep slope from the northern edge to Stringybark Creek.
The Eureka Stockade Monument, located in the Eureka Stockade Reserve, is significant as the main memorial commemorating the site of the Eureka Stockade and the events of 3 December 1854.
The Federal Environment Minister, Tony Burke, requested on 9 December 2010 that the Australian Heritage Council include the Tarkine in its work plan and continue to conduct research and consultation on identifying the area's National Heritage values.
The first regular mail service, like the first regular transport service in New South Wales, was by boat along the Parramatta River between Sydney and Parramatta.
The first such cable was laid across Bass Strait in 1935 and provided Tasmania's first telephone link with the mainland.
The Great Ocean Road and Scenic Environs contains many significant dinosaur fossils, shedding light on life in the period when Australia was closer to the South Pole and includes Australia's most famous polar dinosaur site, Dinosaur Cove.
The hinterland of this 'Australind' (from Australia and India) settlement was supposedly suitable for intensive farming in small holdings, and a mighty port city trading across the Indian Ocean was confidently envisaged.
The house had stables on the western side, and on the east was a gravel tennis court which Rowe adapted for croquet.
The last clipper ship in Australian waters was the Pamir, built in Hamburg in 1905.
The liberally-minded Governor Bourke rode over Lennox's new bridge in 1833, confident that with such public works and manifest enterprise, New South Wales was well on the way to becoming a rich and free society.
The line was extended to a superior ocean port at Victor Harbor (always thus spelt by the South Australian Railways) in 1864 and northwards through agricultural country to Strathalbyn in 1866.
The local Yeronga school still meets the needs of their children, as do the corner shops; and the park, where the creek is mostly piped, remains a playground of the street.
The main building was a 160 x 26 ft wide (48.77 x 7.92m) Nursery building built parallel to the Yard 3 western wall.
The Maroochy was a busy waterway for river traffic transporting goods and timber and the Low's store and hotel became a focal point for trade.
The Marsdens were amongst nearly 400 families allocated land in the South East of South Australia under the War Service Land Settlement Scheme which had the dual aims of rewarding returned servicemen and increasing agricultural productivity by closer settlement.
The more than 600 spring groups located around the edge of the GAB (GABCC, 1998, p.29), which fall into eleven groups of arte sian spring supergroups in the main part of the basin (Habermahl 2006, p.1), are regarded as unique landscape features in arid Australia (Ponder 1986; GABCC, 1998, p.29).
The most difficult part of the road was the western descent from the Blue Mountains at Mount York.
The most important road ran from Perth to Albany, Western Australia's most important port and a coaling station for steamers plying between Europe and eastern Australia.
The Murray Street/Pyrmont Street group was built late in this period, owing to the difficult shape of the block.
The northern line to the Queensland border at Wallangarra, for instance, the last of the three to be completed in 1888, climbed to Australia's highest railway summit of 1,376m near Ben Lomond.
The northern section from Port Darwin to Roper River and the southern section from Port Augusta to Oodnadatta were both let out to private contractors, while the government took on the most isolated and difficult 970km central section.
The only other areas in Australia apart from a few select sites in the south-west that have comparable species richness and endemic s, include an area in the wet tropics near Cairns, and an area on the border between NSW and Queensland.
The opening of an irregular steam ferry service from Sydney in 1855 had begun the career of Manly, isolated by road until 1924, as a Sydney dormitory suburb.
The outstanding timber bridge in Australia, though, and one of the world's finest timber bridges, is Percy Allan's Pyrmont Bridge in Sydney.
The place also contains Sydney Coastal River Flat Forest along major water courses, the naturally restricted Shale/Sandstone Transition Forest and Western Sydney Dry Rainforest which are listed as endangered ecological communities in NSW.
The place holds a significant diversity of plants, 709 native species, in a relatively small area (less than 3,200ha).
The place is also listed for its outstanding rocky coastline, dinosaur fossil sites, geomorphological monitoring sites, its association with the pioneering landscape architect Edna Walling, and for the significance of Bells Beach to surfing.
The Port Augusta to Oodnadatta railway was significant in the development of a cattle industry in the occasionally well-watered centre of the continent.
The present farm, homestead and 700 acres matches the original 1824 grant to Thomas and Leah Howe that was absorbed to complete the Macarthur holdings in 1838.
The proposal for an eleva ted and well-aired location by the Superintendent of the Hobart Factory which Cascades was planned to replace had been ignored (Maxwell-Stewart in Lovell Chen 2007, p. 27).
The railway networks took a long time to construct, and of course many postal routes, especially in the more remote parts of the country, were never busy enough to justify a railway.
The range is also a haven for many native Australian mammals including the western pygmy possum and the western grey kangaroo.
The reason for this was the extension of the Great Northern Railway into its hinterland.
The service between Holland and the Netherlands East Indies was similar in importance and distance to the England-Australia route, and at this stage the Dutch, using American aircraft, were well in front.
The single-storeyed timber and iron residence is located on a level site at the crest of a hill above Wharf Street with views to the northeast towards the Maroochy River.
The smelter, though, was beside the Newcastle coal mine, not the Burra or Kapunda copper mine, because Newcastle coal was closer to salt water than South Australian copper.
The springs environs extend over an area of approximately 50 980 hectares, and the individual springs are surrounded by well-developed wetland vegetation, including large areas of the inland Paperbark (Melaleuca glomerata).
The Sydney transmitter was a 500-watt transmitter established on the roof of The Daily Guardian building in Phillip Street Sydney.
The telegraph service continued to grow and expand in both size and speed over the next twenty years.
The trams then travelled through the inner eastern suburbs on their own tracks, separated from the rest of the regular routes.
The Van Diemen's Land Company had built the first of these as a 3ft-gauge, wooden-rail horse tramway running southwards from 44 miles (71m) from Emu Bay (Burnie) to its mines near Waratah.
The wharfs, wool industry, power station and railways provided local jobs, rebuilt whole streets of houses and created one of the state's most important and dynamic industrial and trading centres.
There was not enough room for growing vegetables there either but Rose used to grow a few flowers near the back gate.
There were thousands more miles of tracks suitable for bullock drays or saddle horses deep into the interior.
These reservations included the fabulous and dramatic descents through deep sandstone cuttings to salt water at Coogee, Bronte, Bondi, Watson's Bay and Balmoral.
These were in Victoria (from Melbourne to Port Melbourne) and in South Australia (from Goolwa to Port Elliot), while the first railway on which work had begun (the more ambitious project from Sydney to Parramatta) did not open until 1855.
These were the bluestone viaduct at Malmsbury and the iron viaducts on stone piers at Taradale and across the Moorabool River near Geelong.
These works on the Murray tended to make it more resemble the canals of Europe and North America, however, it is important to note that there have never been any canals built for inland shipping in Australia.
They would remain so well into the railway age, and bullock teams continued to work in the timber industry, where roads were poor or non-existent, into the 1960s.
This association is enhanced by the many structures and plantings established on the Reserve by the community since 1884, including the Eureka Stockade Memorial, the drinking fountain, the Eureka Stockade Memorial Park Gates, a field gun, the Eureka Halls, glasshouse, caretaker's residence, caravan park and Lake Penhallurick (Criteria A & D).
This included 163 places identified as part of a comprehensive regional assessment of East Gippsland under the Regional Forest Agreement between the Commonwealth and Victoria.
This left the Launceston and Western as a short length of broad gauge line connecting two narrow gauge ones.
This railway, though, was unable to change the reality that most of Broken Hill's mineral production continued to take the shorter South Australian route to salt water at Port Pirie rather than the longer New South Wales route to Sydney or Newcastle.
This route, like many in the semi-desert conditions of the interior, followed indigenous tracks linking permanent water which had been used for many millennia.
This simple weatherboard house, built in outer suburban Melbourne in 1955, was typical.
This terminus, uniquely for Australia, was located in a tunnel, and on the northern approaches the tram tracks crossed the world's largest trams-only bridge.
This was only the second diesel motor ship ever built in the United Kingdom.
Three main railways were envisaged: from Melbourne northwards to the goldfields city of Sandhurst (now Bendigo) thence onwards to the Murray River at Echuca; from the port of Geelong to the other major goldfields centre of Ballarat; and between the two ports of Melbourne and Geelong.
Thus from north to south the middle section of the house was flooded with light.
Thus, at first transport could follow routes used for millennia by the country's indigenous inhabitants, who had always traded small and valuable goods by foot.
Toongabbie is flat and spread out, in contrast to the carefully landscaped model town with its dampness, fogs, constant rain of coal dust and amphitheatre of hills.
Trams returned to Sydney's streets in 1879, although this time broad Elizabeth Street rather than narrow Pitt Street was the chosen thoroughfare.
Trans-Tasman passenger shipping operated as an extension of the Australian interstate services, most intensively between Sydney and Wellington, but also connecting other Australian and New Zealand ports.
Two of Australia's first three ports, Sydney and Hobart, had such good natural harbours that they needed very little in the way of harbour works until vessels became much larger in the early twentieth century.
Ultimately the government decided to follow expert advice, and make Cairns the terminus, which is the only reason Cairns rather than some other place has become the leading city of northern Australia.
Very quickly following the transatlantic success, telegraph lines were being laid around the world, and in 1870 cables from England reached India, Singapore, Batavia, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Japan.
Warwick Street runs in a long and almost straight line from the foot of the Glebe hill in Hobart.
Warwick, who arrived in South Australia from Glasgow in 1839 with his wife and family, was at first employed by the Browne brothers on their Williamstown property.
We had a little yard and at high tide the water would come right up.
What such estates needed to work was a compact urban centre where good shopping facilities were located around a railway station, and all the estate was within a 15-minute walk of this centre.
With the fall of Singapore in 1942 (Britain's main naval facility in the region), Fitzroy Dock assumed a vital role in the Pacific theatre in the Second World War
Witjira-Dalhousie Springs are regarded as a discharge spring complex and consists of at least five active artesian springs together with a few semi-active artesian springs immediately adjacent.
Depart Darwin and travel east into World Heritage-listed Kakadu National Park.
Heading south through the Inside Passage, watch the majestic landscape slip by.
See the snow-capped Monashee Mountains, which vary from glaciated peaks in the north, to low tree-covered hills further south.
Travel south along the Pacific to San Diego.
Cross the Straits of Messina to mainland Italy by ferry, driving north through rustic Calabria via Salerno to your hotel in Sorrento.
Located in south-central Alaska on the shores of Cook Inlet, Anchorage is a unique urban environment in the heart of the wilderness.
After lunch back on board your river ship, continue to tranquil Wu Gorge, noted for its sheer peaks and cliff faces.
Cruising along Scotland's east coast, over the waters of the North Sea, today you'll arrive at Aberdeen.
Participating stores are located at Dandenong, Epping, Mildura, Moonee Ponds, Moorabbin, Nunawading, Taylors Lakes, Warrnambool, Hoppers Crossing and Keilor Park.
Drive across Northern France, past the Canadian War Memorial at Vimy Ridge on the Somme battlefields.
Royal Palm is absolute beach front accommodation; a 25 storey high rise resort set in tropical grounds...
Or you might prefer an undulating ride west from Old Tallangatta around Lake Hume on the High Country Rail Trail, which will eventually extend 112km from Bandiana (outside Wodonga) to Shelley.
Sample delicious fare at Ashgrove Cheese Factory, then visit Culzean Garden, an English-style woodland garden set around an elegant Georgian house.
You'll view the towering peaks of the Coast Mountains and pass through the fertile fields of the Fraser Valley before arriving in Vancouver.
Later, you'll stop at the Europe/Asia Monument.
Then cruise to Tournon and Tain L'Hermitage, twin towns that face each other across the Rhone River, linked by a 19th century suspension bridge.
Continue south through the scenic Inside Passage.
Things you are likely to see in this unique reef ecosystem include large fish, small reef sharks, blue starfish, turtles, giant clams and shells.
Later, re-board your river ship and continue cruising towards picturesque Lake Onega, not only the second lake you visit today, but also the second largest lake in Europe after Lake Ladoga.
This morning, transfer to a small boat and travel along the tiny tributaries to an evergreen island and a floating fish farm.
This morning journey into Geikie Gorge National Park, and explore Geikie Gorge, situated in the Oscar and Geikie ranges.
Board the Princess Rail Service dome car through the Alaskan tundras to Denali National Park.
See rivers that cut through deep ravines, waterfalls cascading down the side of steep, snow-capped mountains and farms clinging dizzily to sheer slopes.
The Pilbara is home to deep rocky canyons, remote and isolated oases, the red terrain contrasts the blue azure waters of the Indian Ocean.
Cross Cook Strait passing through the incredible Marlborough Sounds.
Later, your ship enters the Moscow Canal and continues towards Moscow.
This morning, transfer to a small boat and travel along the tiny tributaries where stilt houses are haphazardly leaning on each other.
Meet the growers and stock up on fresh local produce at the monthly Yarra Valley Farmers' Market at Yering Station, gather supplies for a picnic at the many farms, orchards and roadside stalls along the Yarra Valley Food Trail, or pick your own fruit at local berry farms.
Anchorage, Denali National Park, Mt McKinely, glaciers in Prince William Sound, Kenai Peninsula
Afterwards, a short boat ride will take you past floating fishing villages to your river ship for the start of your luxury Mekong River cruise.
Travel to Coral Bay, gateway to Ningaloo Reef Marine Park.
The Harbor Club Bellevue is located on the 25th floor of the Symetra Financial Centre building.
Today your ship cruises along the Neva River and crosses Lake Ladoga, the largest lake in Europe.
Your second option is to head for nearby Gardener Island, lined with vertical cliffs that drop to sandy ledges and large boulders.
Today, board a local boat bound for Sa Dec, the city where the French writer Marguerite Duras met her lover, Huynh Thuy Le.
Stop in at Lucca, on the Serchio River, boasting Renaissance-era city walls, cobbled piazzas, charming churches and centuries-old buildings.
Afterwards, continue along rugged dirt roads through remote areas of Cape York to Moreton Telegraph Station, located on the Wenlock River.
Then, cruise the stunning Bosphorus Strait, which runs along the boundary between Europe and Asia.
The town was first settled in 1886 and a railway followed in 1892, with passengers and freight, including oil from the Bass Strait wells via the Barry Beach rail line.
Arrive at the alpine resort of Whistler, set in a spectacular location and considered an adventure playground throughout the year.
Park Road / Reserve Road / Tulip Street, Cheltenham Update: Bayside Council and VicRoads installed traffic lights at these intersections in July 2009.
Park Road / Reserve Road / Tulip Street, Cheltenham Update: Bayside Council and VicRoads installed traffic lights at these intersections in July 2009.
Cross the Europe-Asia divide before arriving in the historic city of Yekaterinburg.
This afternoon travel via Millstream-Chichester National Park to Karratha.
A branch line off the Melbourne-Sydney railway reached Cudgewa, near Corryong, in 1921, but only after the construction of 35 bridges (and Victoria's highest-altitude station, at Shelley).
The flowing waters of the Nerang River frame the Gold course with both fresh and salt-water lakes coming into play on nine of the eighteen holes.
Explore the region's rich timber, farming and gold mining heritage at the Upper Yarra Museum and Mont De Lancey historic homestead.
After breakfast this morning, depart St Petersburg and begin cruising along the Neva River which crosses Lake Ladoga, the largest lake in Europe.
Back on the Gibb River Road, travel to Bell Gorge, where rugged cliffs surround a series of tiered waterholes.
Visit Te Papa Tongarewa, the National Museum of New Zealand, then perhaps ride a cable car to the Botanic Gardens, taking in spectacular views of Wellington city and harbour.
This afternoon we moor near Salters Station for our overnight anchorage.
Located downtown the Club has athletic facilities including a gym, running track, spa, sauna, volleyball, tennis, squash, racquetball and 2 pools.
Located along the shores of Tongass Narrows, Ketchikan offers a range of attractions to discover, including Creek Street, the Tongass Historical Museum, Totem Bight State Park and Saxman Village.
This afternoon your cruise ship arrives in Juneau, Alaska's pretty capital.
Alice Springs, Uluru, learn about this ancient land from an Indigenous host, bush hikes and remote campsites, 4x4 trek across desert plains, hike through magnificent Kings Canyon
Alternatively, board the ferry and return on a scenic cruise to the mainland.
The Warburton Highway is the Yarra Valley's road less travelled, making it an ideal getaway on Melbourne's doorstep.
Here's a chance to witness golden sunsets, camp in remote wilderness, safari through African plains and cruise rivers filled with iconic wildlife.
This island was a place of refuge in 1916 for Shackleton and his crew after his ship was destroyed by pack ice in the Weddell Sea.
Due to its size and diversity, the crater floor is comprised of several distinct areas, ranging from forest, swamps, lakes and springs, to open grassland and some sandy dunes.
A unique high-altitude adventure on top of Sydney Tower Eye, 268 metres (880 feet) above Sydney!
Their size soon becomes apparent when parking at a suburban shopping centre or picking your way between trees along a narrow bush track.
Metropolitan Melbourne' means such areas or postcodes as determined by RACV from time to time, having regard to the Metropolitan & Outer Suburban Taxi Zones contained in the Melway Greater Melbourne Street Directory from time to time.
The RACV City Club is located at 501 Bourke Street, which is the highest point in the City of Melbourne.
Stop to visit the Temple of Dawn, Wat Arun, before returning to the heart of Bangkok and enjoying time at leisure to go shopping at the city's famous shopping malls.
The many remote roads that join rural communities are populated by wildlife, especially kangaroos.
Visit the floating markets then go ashore to visit the French Gothic Cathedral as well as the colourful port area, which is filled with colonial buildings and delightful flower gardens.
As you arrive in the resort's foyer, double storey glass windows look out over a stunning 180- degree vista of the Anderson's inlet and Venus Bay.
Call in on local ports Adelaide and Perth prior to sailing across the Indian Ocean to the exotic port of Mauritius and onto Durban, Port Elizabeth, and Cape Town in South Africa.
Today, take a short boat ride to your river ship for the start of your luxury Mekong River cruise.
RACV Healesville Country Club Ideally located in the picturesque Yarra Valley, amid an emerald oasis of rolling countryside, landscaped gardens and panoramic views.
Olde worlde charm with modern facilities typifies the Brantford Club, located in the middle of downtown Brantford.
TORQUAY GOLF CLUB Image Link golf-course Set within the backdrop of the Torquay and Jan Juc beaches, The Torquay Golf Club is a challenging course for all golfers.
An easy 1km return track from Cottontree Creek Picnic Area in Mt Granya State Park leads to a seasonal waterfall and 1937 log scout hut.
Set a short distance from the white sandy beaches of surfers paradise and at the heart of the region's sand belt, this 100-hectare resort is set on a champion golf course.
With a mahout (elephant driver) as your guide, travel on an elephant through bamboo forest, wood and grassland habitats, keeping an eye out for birdlife and various other animals.
The first is via the South Gippsland Freeway then onto the Bass Highway (coast road), or alternatively, via the South Gippsland Freeway onto the South Gippsland Highway (Scenic Road).
Back to 1858 and built with a mid-Victorian colonial architecture the Dunedin Club is set in spacious landscaped grounds.
From Everest Base Camp, head back down to Gorak Shep then make the tough trek to Kala Pattar (5,545 m) for exceptional views of Everest, Lhotse and the other jagged peaks of this awe-inspiring region.
Enjoying GoldLeaf Service, sit back and relax in true comfort as you travel this famous railroad.
Board the ferry and return to the mainland.
Today visit beautiful Lang Co Beach and cross the Hai Van Pass, one of Vietnam's most scenic hillside roads.
This morning your ship will leave the Rhine and turn onto the Moselle River, a winding and picturesque waterway.
Access is via Mornington Peninsula Freeway to Arthurs Seat Road, Dromana from Purves Road 171 D1.
Board a unique cruise along this stunning gorge and learn more about its surrounding flora and fauna.
Experience panoramic views, fern gullies and a spectacular waterfall on this circuit walk through the Kinglake National Park, taking you past Mason Falls and Mount Sugarloaf.
Playa Ancon is close by and there's plenty of time to relax on its long, unspoiled beaches.
Greening Australia is a not-for-profit organisation that works in remote, regional and metropolitan communities to protect, restore and revegetate Australia's unique landscape using local indigenous plants.
Cross vast savannah plains, woodlands and swamps and keep a lookout for a myriad of bird life.
Perhaps wander through Cairns' picturesque parks and gardens, stroll the Esplanade or visit the Pier Market Place and Marlin Marina to shop.
Vantage points along the Track reveal magnificent mountain landscapes, and a wide variety of flora and fauna is encountered.
Then cruise into the Main-Danube Canal towards Nuremberg.
This morning board your flight from Melbourne to Brisbane prior to transferring via rail from the airport to Brisbane's Roma Street Rail Station.
Visit the floating markets then go ashore to visit the French Gothic Cathedral as well as the colourful port area, which is filled with colonial buildings and delightful flower gardens.
From learners to seniors, the RACV Drive School can provide driving instructors across all metropolitan Melbourne and some regional areas in Ballarat, Bellarine Peninsula, Geelong, Mornington Peninsula, Bairnsdale, Wodonga, Warragul, Traralgon and Tallangatta.
Discover the rich heritage of this Byzantine city during your private canal cruise to St. Mark's Square.
Snorkel the Great Barrier Reef or perhaps hop aboard the historic Kuranda Scenic Railway taking you through World Heritage-listed rainforest to the mountain village of Kuranda  passing high above rivers and gorges close to ancient waterfalls on a railway line that is a true feat of modern engineering (own expense).
Cruise along the Beagle Channel to watch the marine wildlife playing along the shores of the small islands.
Then return to your ship and continue cruising south from the Sane to the Rhne River, towards Vienne.
Cross the Europe-Asia divide before arriving in the historic city of Yekaterinburg.
Take the ferry back across Georgia Strait to Vancouver where you will transfer to your Holland America Line cruise.
Visit the Olduvai Gorge before driving to the crater rim to set up camp.
Enter Mt Field National Park, and walk to Russell Falls.
Alternatively, enter the world's largest aviary dome at the Birds of Eden sanctuary, home to a range of free-flight African birds in their natural habitat.
Transfer to the Novotel Cairns Oasis Resort, a modern contemporary style resort in beautiful tropical surrounds.
Later, visit historic Simon's Town and see penguins at Boulders Beach before returning to Cape Town.
Head into Lima's centre to discover more of the history and traditions of old Peru.
Journey through the patchwork farmlands of the Canterbury Plains, before travelling through gorges, river valleys and across the magnificent Southern Alps within Arthurs Pass National Park.
Re-board your ship and continue towards the Volga-Baltic Waterway.
Here, visit Maison et Jardin Claude-Monet (Monet's House and Garden).
Disembark in Whittier and board the Princess Rail Service to Denali National Park.
Later this afternoon, your ship will pass between two majestic cliffs on entry to Qutang Gorge, the shortest, narrowest and most dramatic of the Three Gorges.
This afternoon cruise spectacular Geikie Gorge, discovering the stunning waterway hemmed by limestone walls bleached by annual flooding.
Werribee St North/Geelong Rd, Werribee: Works done include improvements next to the railway line and an additional lane/storage for turning movements.
In the shadow of Hanging Rock, deep in tree change country amid a trail of wineries and antique shops, is the heart of central Victoria: community.
On arrival in Yichang, transfer to your river ship and settle in for your cruise along one of the most famous rivers in the world.
This includes giving way to vehicles turning left from slip lane or a side street even if they have a Give Way or Stop sign.
Explore some of Tasmania's magnificent National Parks with up to 2 months entry and save with your RACV membership More about tasmania national parks pass - holiday vehicle pass
As you arrive in the resort's foyer, double storey glass windows look out over a stunning 180- degree vista of the Anderson's inlet and Venus Bay.
Travel to the Gallipoli Peninsula and take part in the unforgettable Anzac Day Dawn Service.
Visit the impressive Imperial Citadel and board a dragon boat to cruise the waters of the Perfume River.
Watch for birds around the riverbanks and water lily-covered lagoons.
At night, enjoy a traditional camp-oven dinner at a remote cattle station before falling asleep under thousands of stars.
Stop at the Outback Camel Farm, then continue to Ayers Rock Resort.
This merges into the Mornington Peninsula Freeway.
Continue to the differing landscapes of Karijini National Park, where gorges, waterfalls and rock pools provide refreshing scenery compared to the red Pilbara terrain.
You'll view the towering peaks of the Coast Mountains and pass through the fertile fields of the Fraser Valley before arriving late this afternoon in Vancouver.
On arrival in Lao Cai this morning, disembark your train and transfer to Sapa, a quiet and visually stunning mountain town located in north-western Vietnam.
Then it's onward to Bryce Canyon, home to the world's largest concentration of hoodoos-tall limestone spires that rise majestically from the desert floor.
Travel into World Heritage-listed Kakadu National Park and cruise the Yellow Water billabong.
Features all major road networks throughout Western Australia including a detailed map of Perth city and surrounds.
Visit spectacular Brachina Gorge, an important refuge for the Yellow-footed rock wallaby, birds and reptiles, before taking a scenic drive to the Gammon Ranges National Park.
Napa Sonoma Valleys Drive along the scenic Carneros Highwayand visit a winery in Sonoma.
If driving from Brisbane, follow the Pacific Highway (M1) south to exit 71 (Nerang - Broadbeach Road) after Metricom Stadium turn left into Ross Street and take the first exit on the left hand side after the overpass to enter Royal Pines Resort.
This tour goes directly to and from Australia Zoo, made famous by Steve Irwin (The Crocodile Hunter).
Here, a sightseeing tour of the city takes in the cobbled streets, the old and picturesque port area, Saint-Catherine's Church, the largest wooden church in France, and much more.
The fairytale-like towers of the Palace of Popes mark a medieval fortress whose 4km of walls still surround the city.
Wake early to witness sunrise over the golden dunes and meet with a passionate local full of incredible knowledge of the desert.
We travel along some of the original sections of the Old Telegraph Track and stop at Fruit Bat Falls, where there's time for a swim, then continue to Moreton Telegraph Station located on the Wenlock River.
Kakadu National Park is home to the most outstanding concentration of Aboriginal art in Australia.
Thousands of towering limestone peaks form a stunning backdrop for a relaxing overnight boat trip over Halong Bay's deep green waters.
You'll see these prehistoric creatures at close range as your guide entices the crocodiles to leap out of the water right next to the boat!
Conveniently located in downtown Seattle, the Club is close to Pioneer Square, the Seattle Waterfront and Ferries, Safeco Field and Seahawks Stadium.
Cruise at sunset along the Yellow Waters Lagoon to view the incredible beauty and abundant wildlife of this remarkable World Heritage region.
Works zones can only be used by drivers of vehicles engaged in construction work in or near the zone.
Today begin cruising along the Neva River and cross Lake Ladoga, the largest lake in Europe.
Boasting some of the country's most pristine wilderness, Wells Gray Provincial Park is a gem in Canada's crown.
After breakfast, transfer to the railway station and board the Allegro Train for your journey to St Petersburg where you'll board your river ship, the MS AmaKatarina.
Koetong trestle bridge Koetong trestle bridge, at the end of the grassed parking area, is unsafe to cross but you can look over the rail bed, and a path descends to Koetong Creek for a fish-eye view of the towering timbers.
Back on the Gibb River Road, travel to Bell Gorge, where rugged cliffs surround a series of tiered waterholes.
As you make your way through forests of sugar maple and white birch, watch for the black bear, moose and deer that call this area home.
Your trail leads you into Banff National Park, in the province of Alberta.
Of walking through remote glens in wild mountains, with air as clear as crystal and creeks bubbling over lichen-covered boulders.
This beautiful large brick mansion is located on the corner of James and Townsend Streets in central New York.
Mobile replacement service is limited to areas trafficable by two wheel drive vehicles.
Stop to visit the Temple of Dawn, Wat Arun, before returning to the heart of Bangkok and enjoying time at leisure to go shopping at the city's famous shopping malls.
This report is about building a continuous, connected, motorway network that provides a safe and quality link between Victoria's major centres, and to interstate destinations.
The Chilean capital is situated in the Santiago basin, spectacularly flanked on the east by the Andes.
River Cruising Cruise the rivers of Europe through intimate and historic landscapes.
South Pacific Relax amid sandy beaches, warm waters and swaying palm trees.
Board a unique cruise along this stunning gorge and learn more about its surrounding flora and fauna.
Located at No 1 Great Ocean Road, RACV Torquay Golf Club is at the start of Victoria's premier tourist destination and a leisurely 75 minute drive from Melbourne.
Here, view the famous historical bridge, built by convicts and featuring more than 180 unique hand carvings, and take some time to explore the colonial township.
Watch as hills covered with tropical vegetation and awe-inspiring rock formations drift by and the river alternates between fast currents and slower flowing sections.
This is most relevant on busy urban roads, as bus drivers are sometimes required to merge from the bus stop over several lanes to make a right hand turn within a short distance.
Join Whales in Paradise for an unforgettable cruise, past homes and gardens of the rich and famous, to the deep blue waters of the majestic 'Humpback Whale Highway'.
Watch as hills covered with tropical vegetation and awe-inspiring rock formations drift by and the river alternates between fast currents and slower flowing sections.
On steep downgrades it is very important to change down to a lower gear to assist the brakes, or even better, to reduce the need to use the brakes.
After lunch, take in some of the highlights of the city including the Great Mosque, the ancient city walls, Drum and Bell Towers and Big Wild Goose Pagoda.
Pass through the fertile fields of the Fraser Valley and view the towering peaks of the Coast Mountains before entering the Fraser Canyon.
Cross under the Suez Canal on return to Cairo.
The major Goulburn Valley and Midland Highways pass through Shepparton enroute to Cobram, which is an easy two hours drive north of Melbourne via the Hume Highway, in Victoria.
The Wildlife Habitat provides visitors with a chance to observe up close a huge range of flora and fauna.
For the avid golfer, RACV Cobram Resort is in close proximity to the region's top rated Cobram-Barooga, Yarrawonga-Mulwala and Tocumwal golf courses.
Fish mosaic Scattered around the town is whimsical public art: fish-mosaic benches and bus stops and a corrugated fence painted as a coral reef.
Stylish, contemporary and a short drive from iconic Hastings Street, RACV Noosa Resort offers smart accommodation overlooking a pristine wetlands sanctuary.
It is located in the Brisbane Club Tower on Post Office Square in the city heart.
Wander the streets of Moscow, Russia's capital, and take in the famous Red Square, St Basil's Cathedral and the magnificent Kremlin.
Continue on to see the parks, gardens and tree-lined streets of Palermo and visit La Recoleta Cemetery.
Cruise up the Prince Regent River to Camp Creek and the King Cascades waterfall.
From the tango bars and heaving streets of Buenos Aires, head south to the striking mountain scenery, vast plains, ice fields and glaciers of the Chilean and Argentinean Patagonia.
Take a bicycle tour along the Berlin Wall, cruise the Spree River, or visit Museum Island, a World Heritage-listed complex of internationally renowned museums and galleries.
Enjoy the views as your ship winds past rocky headlands and glides over the still blue waters of the Inside Passage.
Tangalooma Island Resort is only 75 minutes from Brisbane by luxury catamaran, with its crystal clear waters, white sandy beaches and untouched National Parks.
Tours depart from next to The Forum Theatre - Russell St near Flinders St corner OR Southern Cross Station.
Leave the coast for your inland route on your heritage steam train from Rockhampton to Emerald.
Leaving the spectacular snow-capped mountains of Mt Cook National Park behind, travel by coach to picturesque Lake Tekapo.
Following free time this afternoon, set off for a sunset cruise on the Zambezi, watching for hippos and other wildlife on the riverbanks.
Of this last group, 'Milford Sound looking north-west from Freshwater Basin' is the best known.
Ford returned to New Zealand through Canada and Australia about 1906.
Hodgkins had been aware of Nerli's work from the New Zealand and South Seas Exhibition held in Dunedin in 1889-90.
This huge area, comprising the whole of the south-west portion of the South Island, from the Nuggets on the east coast to Milford Sound on the west, was purchased on 17 August 1853 for 2,600.
In this manner the expedition continued south to Cook Strait.
In 1837 Wing sailed down the east coast in the schooner Trent.
For the first six years Sharpe was a settler on the Mata Creek estuary near Mangapai, south of Whangarei.
The Steads bought Thomas Duncan's house, Strowan, on Papanui Road in 1890.
Each spring and autumn he journeyed south to Palliser Bay and sometimes to Wellington, holding religious services and baptising Maori.
Because the Urewera land was not wanted for settlement, but rather left under bush to prevent erosion and flooding in the Bay of Plenty, Carroll was able to secure the passage of the Urewera District Native Reserve Act 1896.
His field work included pioneer exploration in Arctic Canada for the Geological Survey of Canada with his uncle, Robert Bell.
Those not killed fled inland to hidden valleys.
Compared with Port Nicholson, Auckland was sparsely populated, labour was in short supply, and food had to be imported from the north or from Sydney; prices, wages and rents were high.
It was a model Christian community set on rolling hills south of Matamata pa.
The plates depict prominent landmarks and scenes, from Mt Taranaki and Lake Taupo in the north to Bradshaw Sound in the south.
Anglican church services were held at their home and store from October 1872, and on 29 September 1875 Louisa laid the foundation stone for All Saints', the first Anglican church in the town.
Wellington, 1969 Smith, S. P. History and traditions of the Maoris of the West Coast, North Island of New Zealand prior to 1840.
Compared with Port Nicholson, Auckland was sparsely populated, labour was in short supply, and food had to be imported from the north or from Sydney; prices, wages and rents were high.
George O'Brien is said to have been born at Dromoland Castle, County Clare, Ireland, and was baptised in the parish of Kilnasoolagh (Newmarket-on-Fergus) on 16 September 1821.
For three years from 1845 he served on the staff of I. K. Brunel, working on the Great Western railway in the south of England.
Henry took up farming at Waimea West.
He left his ship at the Bay of Islands and proceeded south to Whaingaroa (Raglan Harbour).
For some time Hannah Ward had been carrying the full burden of the family while running a small liquor shop in Abbotsford Street, near the main roads north to the goldfields.
Christchurch, 1903 Smith, S. P. History and traditions of the Maoris of the West Coast, North Island of New Zealand prior to 1840.
Geographically the works range from the Bay of Islands to Waikato and the Coromandel Peninsula, concentrating on sites within easy reach of Auckland.
He partnered Captain Thomas Good in land development in the area (later leasing part of his land to Good), built a hotel at Oeo and ran the Oeo-Hawera coach service.
Patricia Charlotte Perrin was born at her family's home in Arthur Street, Ellerslie, Auckland, on 11 July 1921, the daughter of Ruby Elizabeth Bennett and her husband, Huntly Percy Perrin, a dentist.
A Christian marriage service was performed at Ngamotu on 28 March 1841, when the Wesleyan missionary Charles Creed first visited Taranaki.
On 26 February 1848 he married his cousin, Caroline Hanrott Emma Treacher, in the parish church, Wellington, Somerset.
His parish stretched as far south as Palliser Bay and beyond the Ruahine Range to the upper reaches of the Rangitikei River.
Ngati Korokoro occupied land on the south side of Hokianga, extending from Pakanae to the head of the harbour, and south to Maunganui Bluff, including the river valleys of Waimamaku and Waipoua.
William Nelson became general manager of the New Zealand head office at Tomoana, where a well-equipped freezing works and a small model village were established.
He found the source of the Waiau River in the Spenser Mountains, and named the Ada, Henry, Boyle and Anne rivers in the upper Waiau valley.
In 1863 Russell and other inland settlers wanted the government to send military forces to Hawke's Bay while Ormond looked to friendly Maori and a small volunteer force to keep the peace.
Percy Gates Morgan was born on 2 September 1867 at Richmond, near Hobart, Tasmania.
In the course of setting up these missions Pompallier made four voyages down the east coasts of the North and South Islands, reaching as far as Otago Harbour and tramping long distances inland.
His fighting pa, therefore, were sited on hilly slopes at points which offered safe exit routes into thick bush.
Hill lived in William and Sarah Fox's house overlooking Nelson Haven.
Lifting rain clouds, upper Hollyford Valley Lake Heron Beech hut, upper Mataura valley Forest Stream near Arnold River, West Coast NZ
He chose as his headquarters Herekino Bay, which faced the Waiau, the narrow waterway separating the island from Coromandel Peninsula.
In May 1835 the English boys' school was relocated at Waimate North, which became William's second station.
In 1853 Governor George Grey granted land for a parish church in Wanganui.
From the wide range of rocks and minerals submitted to him for analysis, Skey was able to build up a picture of the major geological formations and mineral-bearing localities.
Henry took up farming at Waimea West.
Nevertheless, he collected plants in Arthur's Pass, Banks Peninsula, Lake Wakatipu and Stewart Island.
In this extract from the movie Whale rider young Paikea rides the lead whale of a stranded pod out into the sea, so that the rest will follow.
After his retirement he visited Scotland and Europe, where he discussed a wide range of scientific matters with Charles Darwin, Thomas Huxley and Richard Owen.
After teaching briefly in Scotland, he and Mona emigrated to Dunedin, New Zealand, in 1931 to the Dunedin School of Art at King Edward Technical College.
Helped by his rapid grasp of Maori he extended his journeys within Northland, and with William Williams and Richard Matthews took his first overland trip down the East Coast from Hicks Bay to Poverty Bay in 1838.
He was educated at the Hackney Grammar School; at Hove House, Brighton; and at the school attached to University College, London.
He is said to have engaged in hydraulic sluicing for gold on a large scale and apparently constructed reservoirs and water races to work the terraces at the right-hand branch of the Waimea Creek.
In the headwaters of the Waiau, Travers collected grasses and alpine flowers, carefully noting the altitude.
In February 1852 he became the first parish priest in Wanganui, with oversight of the Taranaki area, and continued to do missionary work among the coastal tribes between the Patea and Rangitikei rivers.
Early in 1853 the Marshalls left for Thomas Guthrie's station at Castlepoint, Wairarapa, to teach the Guthrie children.
Francis Gordon Bell was born on 13 September 1887 at Grovetown, Marlborough, the son of Scottish-born William Bell, who ran merino sheep in the Wairau Valley, and his wife, Emma Amelia Dolamore, a schoolmistress and daughter of New Zealand's first Baptist clergyman, Decimus Dolamore.
In 1878 he acquired a large timber mill in the northern Wairoa, north of Auckland, a cattle station at Whakatane, and greatly enlarged his Domain Brewery at Newmarket.
F. C. Burgess, G. S. Evatt and Nugent Herrmann Welch, at their camp near Cape Palliser lighthouse, about 1934 Next item.
In retirement Gully exhibited in Nelson, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin, Melbourne, Sydney and London.
Webster worked for Browne before setting up his own timber and trading post on Whanganui Island, at the mouth of Coromandel Harbour.
The possibility of access from the West Coast to the arable land which they had reported in the Tiraumea and Matukituki valleys stimulated Heaphy and Brunner to undertake their famous journey down the West Coast as far as the Arahura River.
James Nelson Williams was born at Waimate mission station inland from the Bay of Islands, New Zealand, probably on 22 August 1837, the third son of Jane Nelson and her husband, William Williams, a missionary and later bishop of Waiapu.
Gonzaga was joined at the Coromandel Hospital by Sister Mary Agnes (Lucy Canty), who had also been at St Vincent's.
Robert Speight's enduring love of alpine valleys was obvious to his students and to fellow naturalists like Leonard Cockayne and Arnold Wall who journeyed with him in the Southern Alps.
From April to June 1871 he explored the Atlas Mountains, in Morocco, where no arctic-alpine flora was found.
The crossing structure was a 230-foot-long laminated timber arch bridge, an impressive structure even by modern standards.
About a week after the Gray's beaked whale was stranded on Waiheke Island, a young beaked whale was found in a West Auckland River.
Under the tallest trees were layers of young trees, tree ferns and shrubs, and lower still were ferns and sedges.
At first they had to live off the land; but by good fortune the soil was perfectly suited to horticulture, and vegetables carried to Lyttelton by the boys found a ready market.
Until the opening of inland coach and rail routes, Scott's Ferry was situated on the only route between Wellington and Wanganui.
On his homestead area, Wright offered the Anglican church 10 acres for a parsonage, and contributed 100 towards the cost.
Henry spent his earliest years in a small wooden house in Moray Place adjoining his father's plant nursery and seed merchant's premises.
Until a nearby church was built, local people attended Sunday services in the asylum chapel.
Nestled in a conservative suburban street, the large, decaying Victorian villa was set back from the road and surrounded by high bamboo thickets, palms, trees and other untamed vegetation.
Thomas Kirk moved to Wellington in early 1874 and from then until 1880 lectured in the natural sciences at Wellington College, at that time affiliated to the University of New Zealand.
Early in 1850 Marshall opened Wellington Grammar School in Hawkestone Street.
By May 1897 he had set up another nursery at Tapanui which was to supply the Dusky Hill, Conical Hills and Hanmer Springs plantations.
Answering her helm immediately the little ship came up into the wind and cleared the weather end of the berg, but still was well into the small or broken ice which clattered along the side.
The Lady Jocelyn was also the first immigrant ship to arrive in Tauranga Harbour on January 2nd 1881 after sailing 95 days out of Gravesend.
That year the first Bishop of New Zealand, George Augustus Selwyn took the young priest John Coleridge Patteson to the islands of Melanesia in the South Pacific aboard the 'Undine'.
As I hove-to I signalled for a pilot, and the pilot who usually took my ship into Plymouth came alongside.
One of his oil-paintings reproduced in this article shows his old ship, hard-driven running clear of the icebergs in 56 south latitude and 153 west longitude, far down in the Southern Ocean between New Zealand and Cape Horn.
The City,' loaded with wool, kauri gum, etc., was a full ship and in good ocean-going trim, when she left Auckland in the beginning of February, 1877.
Plain enough below was a long line of breakers on a reef running out to windward of the group The yards were braced sharp up, and the smart little ship sailing a couple of points more into the wind cleared the end of the reef and breakers by about two hundred and fifty yards!
The ship 'Kent' clearing the icebergs in 56 degrees south latitude.
Next night at about half past nine the City was due to pass, on the weather bow, a small cluster of rocky islets about fifty miles south-east of Staten Island, and the look-out man was told to keep a good look-out to windward.
She sailed in east of Motuihi Island, and in so doing so nearly left her bones on the now well-lit Bean Rock.
Under the command of Captain Henry Rose, she made a very good run of 84 days from Gravesend to Lyttelton, arriving on the November 20th 1869.
The 'Kent' passing the 'Owen Glendower' in the Southern Ocean, 1861.
The iron ship Invererne, from London, arrived in harbour yesterday afternoon.
Three days later the barque Anna Watson arrived from the Bay of Islands with the Chief Magistrate, Captain William Symonds, and the surveyor-general, Mr Felton Matthew.
Twenty-four hours later the City of Auckland was in Torbay on the port tack, the wind north-east, and the ship laying well up the Channel; everybody elated, homeward bound, Old England right alongside, and London (and pay-day) close ahead of them.
A very popular Captain, Petherbridge took command of this fine vessel from launch date and she carried hundreds of passengers to New Zealand ports as well as visiting Auckland on some seven occasions between 1868 and 1874.
The Hawkes Bay Times of 10th March 1874 The New Zealand Shipping Company's fine iron ship Invererne, 743 tons, Capt. Foreman, arrived in Hawkes Bay at 6 o'clock on Sunday evening, after a good passage of 107 days.
Captain Thomas Capel Tilly, a Royal Naval officer, came to the Pacific and New Zealand on the H.M.S. Cordelia as a Sub-Lieutenant THOMAS CAPEL TILLY, RN (1830-1900) was the only son of Captain Thomas Tilly, RN (1792-1844), and his father Charles Tilly was a Commander in the Royal Navy.
On 26th April 1893 Waimea suffered an explosion in the accommodation area of the ship while bound from New Zealand to New York and Boston.
After peace was declared between North and South, Captain Waddell, who by chance had been a 'passenger' when she arrived in Auckland, took her into Liverpool where she was confiscated by the British Government, who later sold her for 30,000 pounds, half her value at the time.
He saw every kind of sea-trade; he had trafficked in every ocean; he first saw New Zealand waters in 1846; he traded for sandalwood in the Western Pacific; he loaded his guns for defence against pirates in China and Malay seas.
The Auckland was captained by Charles James Stewart for 12 years, and during this time she made many a fast voyage to New Zealand in under 100 days.
One of Captain Clayton's paintings depicts an ocean race in which the Kent overtook and passed the Owen Glendower, a ship which brought troops to New Zealand in the war days.
An Appalachian Trail could include Scotland!
They will also enjoy six bottles of the best red and white wine from South Tyrol, in northern Italy.
The walks are located across the Cotswolds AONB, which is a 790 square mile landscape, stretching from Warwickshire and Worcestershire in the north, through Gloucestershire and West Oxfordshire down to west Wiltshire and the area around Bath in the south.
Breed in northern Britain but winter south of the Humber.
Beginning with a bright and early 3.30am start, volunteers will head up the grassy northern escarpment of Catbells in time for first light rising over the mountains.
If you're walking in the hills of Cumbria or North Yorkshire over the next few days you may bump into Tom Buckley.
New Video: Watch Squash Falconer leap off Mont Blanc
Montane make some good gear that works well on British hills.
If this happens, the habitat of many species of plants and animals, including otters, bats and rare fish and birds, could be put at risk, and deep scars could be left on the fragile upland landscapes of the park.
Lakes and Dales set to grow
Last Monday I walked from the car park at Mardale Head over Rough Crag to High Street and returned via Mardale Ill Bell, Harter Fell, Little Harter Fell and Gatesgarth Pass.
This is done through 'grass roots', community-linked projects which help some of the poorest people in the poorest country in South Asia to improve their lot.
They discussed walking up the mountains, but Anne had produced a Geoff Monks weather forecast, showing mountain weather, including strong winds, and wind chill down towards minus 10 degrees C, so they made other plans.
Cancer sufferer is walking 180 miles in his final months If you're walking in the hills of Cumbria or North Yorkshire over the next few days you may bump into Tom Buckley.
Nesting time: the crags to avoid
Showerswalk discovered a dead whale on Sefton coastal path, near Liverpool.
Then head to Cropton on the North Yorkshire Moors.Cropton is the stuff of beer-drinking legend.
If you're walking in the hills of Cumbria or North Yorkshire over the next few days you may bump into Tom Buckley.
More and more people are dumping white goods, animal carcasses and even asbestos into the Welsh countryside.
Chinese and Tibetan climbers bearing special high-altitude torches reached the summit of the world's highest peak at around 1.20am our time.
Six great waterfall walks More free routes taking you to great waterfalls across the country
These extraordinary pictures show a house made from ice at Angle Tarn, near Ullswater in the Lakes.
Climbers who do technical alpine-style routes on Himalayan peaks (or winter Alpine peaks for that matter) need something really warm that's light, flexible and packs down small.
Offa's Dyke Path is one of the longest National Trails in Britain.
All over the country particularly the southern part in winter.
Hill walkers who remove rocks and stones to add to summit cairns could damage sites that have been around since the bronze age.
I dig out the winter hiking gear and decide to head to Spithope Bothy in Northumberland on my own for an overnight stay!
Their aim is to forge an international agreement to conserve endangered migratory birds in Europe, Africa and Asia.
This is a bird to look out for in ploughed fields or fields of short grass or crop in winter, where they wander around in a stop start style, searching for invertebrates to nab.
Over two weekends in June, early years staff, management and nursery families will be undertaking the 4 Peaks Challenge, climbing Carrantuohill in Ireland, Snowdon in Wales, Ben Nevis in Scotland and Scafell Pike in England.
There are numerous ways up this mountain,but to get a real feel for the whole range, start from the Blaen Y Glyn waterfall car park near Talybont reservoir.
Dramatic and intimate peaks In the first place you have drama in the form of High Stile with its deep, craggy corries and Dale Head with its sheer, brooding bulk.
Many of us dream of walking through fantastic landscape is some distant part of the world.
Criss-crossing the borders of England and Wales, this spectacular Trail passes through the Brecon Beacons National Park and three Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty - the Wye Valley, Shropshire Hills and the Clwydian Hills.
Richard Hill, from the Trust, says: 'Britain's upland areas contain approximately 10.9% of EU peat and peat topped soils, making them our equivalent carbon store to the rainforests.
This is a magnificent 60m hanging valley waterfall in Grey Mare's Tail Nature Reserve, which is owned by the National Trust for Scotland.
Toilets are flushed using rainwater; the water supply comes from the local village spring and the building is clad in larch grown and milled in the North York Moors.
Walkers and climbers exploring the Cairngorms this summer can make use of a popular link-bus service which will be returning in high season.
Theer's also a nice big section on the flora and fauna you'll come across on the 186-mile route.The Pembrokeshire Coast Path was Wales' first long-distance path ...
The 6m high oak sculpture was placed on a hill near Widdecombe-in-the-Moor in Dartmoor two years ago but only has permission to remain there until March next year.
There are 27 routes complete with Ordnance Survey mapping in each issue of Country Walking magazine, covering every corner of our beautiful island.
Would this service make you more likely to spend a weekend in the Lakes, Peaks or Highlands?
We know this because the scheme, designed to maintain a high-quality bovine gene pool north of the border, is under threat.
The route links Sedbury Cliffs, near Chepstow on the banks of the Severn estuary, with the coastal town of Prestatyn on the shores of the Irish Sea.
The huge mountain range is sitting under an enormous ice sheet in Antarctica.
Very much a bird of Scottish moorlands and uplands in summer, Hen Harriers come down to coastal areas in winter.
The cottage is close to the route of the Dyfi Valley Way, a long-distance path linking Afon Dyfi and Borth.
The Haute Savoie - in the hills above Lac Annecy - mountains and lakes in the summer, skiing through the winter, perfect.
A vicar is pleading with walkers and rock fans to stay away from a remote cottage in Wales, despite its connection to rock legends Led Zeppelin.
Avoid run-out zones - below gullies or corrie head walls etc. ridges can be far safer than the bed of gullies.
Breeders from the Arctic, Whooper Swans and Bewick's Swans come to our wetland and grazing marshes to spend the winter.
Folds of Highland cattle graze freely during the winter months, and are taken to their summer grazing in Brough village at the base of Dunnet Head during the summer.
As it threads its way around the coastline, the South West Coast Path passes through five Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty, seventeen Heritage Coasts, a National Park, two World Heritage Sites, a UNESCO Geopark and Britain's first UNESCO Biosphere reserve.
Chinese television showed the team of climbers, carrying special high-altitude torches, reaching the summit at 0920 local time (0120 GMT).
Learn everything you need to tackle snowy peaks this winter Last winter saw bumper snow conditions on the high mountains in Scotland.
The John Muir Trust is urging wind farm developers to stay clear of upland habitats.
Along its route, you'll find Mediterranean-turquoise bays, historic ruined tin mines, a rock-hewn abbey on its own island, surf beaches, deserted beaches, grey seals and basking sharks, and the best Cornish pasties in the land.
Stephen was climbing Y Garn, in West Wales - a mountain he knows very well.
It's an 8-day tramp through remote alpine scenery south of the famous Milford Sound and I've always wanted to do it - lakes, mountains, fjords and not a soul for days.
But as well as reducing red deer numbers, fear of the wolves would prevent deer accessing large areas of land - thus leading to regrowth of natural foliage.
Ptarmigan by Stan Campbell If you can rein in your natural instincts to march ever onward and upward to your destination, the beginning of winter is a great time to take a little time to enjoy the wildlife all around you - particularly birds.
Saturday: Black Hill A 16-miler over Hay Bluff and Cats Back Ridge, with a lunch option at the Bull's Head in Craswall.
Trail Ale has leaked from its birthplace deep in the Wasdale valley to neighbouring Borrowdale valley.
But if you can hack the extra hour's drive to Wasdale Head, the Mosedale valley that starts at the Wasdale Head Inn (the birthplace of Trail Ale) is a beautiful walk encircled with sharp-edged mountains.
Craven Pothole Club will be winching people down to the bottom of the cave until Monday, August 31st.
The Coastguard says boulders 'the size of cars' are still at risk of falling onto the beach.
Great walks in Scotland's far north
The trail follows the course of the Dudh Kosi, the 'River of Milk', gradually climbing through forests of rhododendron and magnolia.
Scafell is close to England's highest mountain, Scafell Pike.
LIVERPOOL - Hoylake Modest heights give you fabulous views of the mountains of Snowdonia, the Dee estuary, the Hilbre Islands and the distinct peak of Moel Fammau.
Alan, who lived in the big city, decided to take up hill walking to knock himself into shape.
The footpath from the town passes the Bronte Parsonage Museum as well as a churchyard, which the Bronte sisters would have known well, before heading out to Penistone Hill and the open countryside.
Phoebe Smith, staff writer, Trail 'Though not very hilly I love the 11km Alwen trail in the Hiraethog area of North Wales.
Chris Moyles will climb Snowdon this Saturday - click here to read this story.
Paul R says: "Overexposed is a film about a moor land hike on Bleaklow in the Peak District.
The circular route around Snowdon this Saturday will be a little different to his normal training ground on the flat ground of London's streets and parks.
Malham Cove A beautiful natural sculpture of limestone at the head of a small valley.
Langdale / Ambleside Mountain Rescue Team are setting up their own 'check-point' in the Lake District on Saturday.
"We want walkers around the UK who value this sustainable transport service around Snowdonia to email the Welsh Transport Minister," says Alun.
But a brand new 31m scheme will reward hill farmers extra funds to stick to traditional methods, such as dry stone walling and keeping fertilisers away from rivers.
North Yorkshire Moors: Farndale This walk features a great contrast, from the beautiful Farndale valley to the bleak Rudland Rigg - an ancient highway running across the moors.
The area covers 4,300 hectares (10,600 acres) with a spectacular combination of mountains, rivers, lake and forest.
Bus service to the Preseli Hills this summer!
This creates ponds where sediment drops to the bottom, thus reducing the need for water companies to purify the water which should mean a few extra coppers in our pockets.
Next year he will head to north Africa for his Trail assignment up Toubkal - the region's highest mountain.
From the popular village of Hathersage head up to the top of the prominent Stanage Edge and enjoy fantastic views into the Hope Valley.
But as well as reducing red deer numbers, fear of the wolves would prevent deer accessing large areas of land - thus leading to regrowth of natural foliage.
Scotland already has coastal access rights and the Welsh Coastal Path will be completed in 2012 so it's a case of opening up the coast in England.
Skylarks, and other ground-nesting birds like the stone curlew, have thrived on uncultivated land that farmers have set aside for one year or longer.
If you get to Gaping Gill in the next few days you can enjoy the best of this waterfall, which drops underground into a giant cave chamber.
The Oregon 200 has a poverty-spec basemap showing little more than major roads and towns, the 300 adds a worldwide basemap with relief shading, while the 400t (t for topo) packs Europe-wide topographic mapping at roughly 1:100,000 scale, plus street-level detail and 3D elevation perspectives.
In a forest with a mountain on the doorstop that had open access, ice climbing, rock climbing, biking, running and wild camping routes.
Retrace your steps, continue along the river to Wetton Mill, then swerve north-east along a path which flanks Wetton Hill, and south again to the village, where the Royal Oak waits.
Our epic April issue showcases the very best of spring, with your indispensable guide to what to spot, great ideas on where best to watch Britain come back to life, and an exploration of what makes spring ...
Broad Stand is a notorious series of rock shelves connecting the summit of Scafell with the walkers' route at Mickledore.
My most memorable days out have been in the Brecon Beacons, Kinder Scout, Snowdon and the Ben in winter but my favourite winter outing has to have been the Aonach Eagach ridge with Alan Hinkes which turned into a minor epic.
Sunday: Kilvert 8 miles into the country of Kilvert's Diary, with Sunday roast at The Baskerville Arms in Clyro.
The path from Bwlch Glas to Snowdon, by Nikki Wallis
From here, either retrace your steps, or carry on to Corn Ddu (873m) and down the path to Storey Arms car park.
Walkers will be able to access every inch of England's coastal countryside under a bill approved in Parliament.
Hills, valleys, mountains, forests, glades, caves - you name it, it's out there to be discovered and enjoyed.
Despite these changes Mont Blanc's summit is still situated in France and is still the highest mountain in The Alps.
The Tiger Inn, in East Dean, is to sell Beachy Head National Beer to celebrate the news that the Downs will become a national park.
Watch this video of a Big Cat roaming around Britain!
A few steps back from the Kirk, find the faint path which runs up the Middle Moor Clough and make your way through the tussocks to the Alcomden Stones.
Congratulations to you Craig and well done also do vick whose picture Bridge Over Dovedale Beck came second.
Trail's tech ed Graham Thompson says, 'These are suitable for icey valley paths and roads, but we wouldn't recommend you wear them up the mountain.
Nick Owen, team leader for Langdale and Ambleside Mountain Rescue Team, says: 'So far we've found people have been well equipped in the hills and we hope this continues.
Dunnet Head is the most northerly point of mainland Scotland and is even further north than Stavanger and Moscow!
We've selected one great walk from each of the national parks of England, Scotland and Wales.
The walk is 5.5 miles long, starts at Amberley station, West Sussex, and will feature fantastic views of Amberley Wildbrooks and the Western Weald.
But Tina Irving from Active Caithness says the region's natural beauty far outweighs the effort taken to reach Scotland's far north.
Six kilometres of drains will be blocked, stopping the loss of peat and coarse sediment from the deep eroding peatland drains.
Though 2000ft does not officially classify a hill as a mountain, it is definitely the lower cut-off point on several published hill/mountain lists for England and Wales (e.g. Nuttalls, Hewitts), as relevant as the 3000ft lower limit for the Munros in Scotland.
The new issue of Country Walking explores the very best hills, valleys and lakes in this unique and special national park, from the majesty of Scafell Pike ...
The national park is Britain's most visited and features a range of landscapes from the gentle limestone slopes of the south to the wild, often bleak and boggy landscape to the north.
Blacka Moor Nature Reserve, on the south-west edge of Sheffield, is the perfect escape with spectacular moors and woodland providing a stunning and peaceful setting for experiencing wildlife.
Besides the easier and shorter routes, the guides do include some routes on Munros, Corbetts and more difficult mountain terrain.
Never rely on the national weather forecast - check the local weather on the morning of your walk and keep a look out for any signs that the weather is changing - particularly as you head to higher ground.
Highway to the Yorkshire Dales closed
They are upland, moorland breeders but gather together often in large flocks in winter.
We came across a small snow covered slope of about 25 foot.
In amongst the fag butts, cola cans and crisp packets, the seven dedicated cleaner-uppers unearthed a rusting wheelchair hidden under a cairn near the summit ...
Walkers will be able go all around the Welsh coastline on a continuous path by 2012, says the Countryside Council for Wales.Work has already started on the 800-mile route, funded by grants from the Welsh Assembly.
The three lakes of Buttermere, Crummock Water and Loweswater are of course the jewels in the crown, but the surrounding becks, crags, fields, walls, houses and lanes do a perfect job in support.
Britain native and former British Army Captain, Ed Stafford, will be the first in history to complete the trip along the world's longest river, spanning more than 4,000 miles from source to mouth.
Expand our oak woodlands by planting 10,000 oak and birch trees in partnership with local schools and volunteers.
If you're a mountain lover, this is Your Place: a landscape hewn from the sandstone of the Northern Highlands with the express intention of injecting a gargantuan dose of unfiltered joy into your veins.
It will cover 627 square miles in Hampshire and Sussex and will be Britain's most populated National Park.
In 1960 Marshall and Smith climbed six first winter ascents up Ben Nevis, including the mini Alpine-route Orion Face Direct (V5) and Point Five Gully (V5).
Created to celebrate the 25th birthday of Britain's best-selling walking magazine, the Country Walking White to Dark Trail takes you through the greatest landscapes of the Peak District in an unforgettable "long weekend".
The new issue of Country Walking explores the very best hills, valleys and lakes in this unique and special national park, from the majesty of Scafell Pike and Helvellyn to the quieter corners of High Street and Buttermere.
Farmers (hill farmers particularly) need to make a living - their grazing often includes unfenced 'commons land' over extremely large areas as well as their 'own' land - with the best will in the world, a single handed farmer/grazier cannot be everywhere all of the time.
Mike likes to walk, wild camp and cave his way through the hills to the north of England
Projects will be undertaken at Bollihope Estate, Raby Estate, Waskerely Park, Killhope, Geltsdale and the Whitfield Estate.
The John Muir Trust owns and protects wild land across Scotland.
Back at camp we broke a few rotten branches off the cherry trees and split some logs we found in one of the houses and soon got a fire going.
The Met Office's improved mountain service also features colour coded hazard symbols, rain and snow forecasts and wind strength and temperature predictions at valley level and at 900m for the Scottish Highlands (east and west), The Lake District, Snowdonia, Brecon Beacons and now the Peaks.
Luckily I came to a halt in a soft hollow while the rest of the snow, and my camera, carried on down.
Operating between Crymych, Mynachlogddu, Rosebush and covering such areas as the Preseli Hills and ...
But Tina Irving from Active Caithness says the region's natural beauty far outweighs the effort taken to reach Scotland's far north.
Across the river, birds scrapped for food in a tiny green pasture.
I'd also like to see more of northern Canada and Alaska.
At this time Mallory became part of a regular rock climbing scene, centred around Pen-y-Pass in Snowdonia.
Trail Ale has leaked from its birthplace deep in the Wasdale valley to neighbouring Borrowdale valley.
Cecil first met Stafford while traveling in the Save Your World protected rainforest in Guyana where Stafford was managing a camp for the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) and conducting an environmental assessment of the area under protection.
Great walks in Scotland's far north
I bought an Outdoor Research hat last summer in Switzerland having managed to leave my faithful Lowe Alpine on a train!!
Walkers planning to tackle the Pennine Way this summer can follow the progress and thoughts of two Country Walking prize winners who are walking the granddaddy of British long distance paths.Walking buddies Richard Lockett and his mate Ash are hiking the 268-mile national trail as a way of cementing their friendship before Ash moves to Australia.
The planting of juniper and birch will benefit wildlife and leave a legacy for future generations who will be able to stand on Wainwright's favourite Lakeland summit of Haystacks and look down on a new and wilder natural landscape.
Walkers in the eastern North York Moors - and those plodding the Lyke Wake Walk - will be able to use a new hard path from next summer.The new path will cross access land near Jugger Howe Beck, just west of Ravenscar, a route which has traditionally been rough and tricky to negotiate.The stone pitched path will make life easier ...
Meriden, by Carl Baker Welcome to the centre of England.
The new issue of Country Walking explores the very best hills, valleys and lakes in this unique and special national park, from the majesty of Scafell Pike ...
The maps cover more of the earth's surface and are more accurate in areas of steep terrain than anything of this nature before.
Difficulty and length of walks vary between 'easy' (mostly low level waymarked routes on level terrain) to 'strenuous' (ascent of high hills or routes on pathless hills).
But John Allen, former chairman of a path working group for the John Muir Trust says building new paths on a mountain like Ben Nevis devalues the experience.
Based in the market town of Hawes in the Yorkshire Dales but with walks covering Askrigg, Aysgarth and other parts of the surrounding area, the Boots & Beer festival was a joint venture back in ...
In 2001, I fell 30+ meters while leading a pitch on Eternal Flame @ 19,500ft on the side of Nameless Tower located in the heart of the Karakoram Mountain range.
Ed Hillary - The Right Man, at the Right Place at the Right Time At around 11.30am on May 29, 1953, Edmund Hilllary took the final few steps that would mark the first ascent of Mount Everest.
LEEDS - Rombalds Moor Rombalds Moor is an oasis of wilderness in this very populated region of West Yorkshire.
Police are reassuring walkers that the Lake District is still "very much open for business" despite yesterday's shootings, which saw widespread panic flood through west Cumbria.
Just as winter sees many species of bird coming over from the frozen continent to enjoy our milder climate, so others descend from our hills and mountains to enjoy the balmy lowlands and coastal marshes.
On July 3-4, climbers from all over the world will descend on Millhouses Park in Sheffield for the IFSC Bouldering World Cup.
My favourite mountain is Ben Loyal, on the north coast of scotland.
These discoveries come soon after 10 amphibian species were discovered in Colombia, including the glass frog, whose organs are visible through its skin.
Trail was among 120 climbers and walkers who were invited to attend a reception for the British Mountaineering Council at 10 Downing Street last week.
The national park is Britain's most visited and features a range of landscapes from the gentle limestone slopes of the south to the wild, often bleak and boggy landscape to the north.
It's easy enough in one valley, and - given time - one area.
"Pieces on the Aonach Eagach, Ben Nevis, fell running in the Yorkshire Three Peaks and walking all of the Lakes 3000ft peaks.
There is no official avalanche warning service for England and Wales, like there is in Scotland but Mal has given us these basic tips which everyone should read before venturing into the hills...
Do come along to the Lakes but avoid cornices, shallow gulleys and stream beds.
There's just over a week left to register your place in a huge sponsored walk on this beautiful island.
A white stag was spotted in a remote coastal area by Fran Lockhart, partnership manager of the John Muir Trust, which has kept its location a secret to protect it from poachers.
Jose Antonio Prado, of the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation, said: "Climate change is a reality today, and some of the best evidence comes from mountain areas: mountain glaciers in nearly all parts of the world have been retreating for decades and, in some cases, have disappeared.
Part of the coastal path in Cornwall - one of the county's main tourist attractions
I have been a walker for some years now getting out as often as I can from flat canal walks to Lake district and snowdonian mountains.
The challenge: A 73-mile walk over six days, taking in 14 mountain passes, every Lake District valley and the option of adding on any of over 200 hills you'll pass.
England's biggest lake, Windermere is only accessible for about a quarter of it's shoreline
The walk continues through Keswick before reaching the magnificent Castlerigg stone circle, in time to catch sundown over the skyline of Derwent Water, Catbells, Dale Head and High Spy.
It contains a large out-of-place boulder for a bit of bouldering before a circuit of Pillar, Little Scoat Fell, Red Pike and Yewbarrow.
The gable ends of the pale stone cottages were smudged with ice, the pine trees of a distant plantation stiff and white as bottle brushes.
An extraordinary sight over the weekend, as Britain's biggest Roman artefact was lit up by 500 beacons, forming a line of light from the east coast to the west.
Meriden village has a cross in the village green to mark that very spot.
The mountains in this part of the Highlands are famous amongst mountaineers and discerning hill-walkers, and would be more so if the area they live in was a little more within reach of the fair-weather walker.
The start up to Craig Y Fan Ddu ridge is a bit of an effort, but once up, follow the Beacons Way to Fan Y Big (719m), down the valley and up to Cribyn (795m) then the final steep push up to Pen Y Fan!
Walkers in the eastern North York Moors - and those plodding the Lyke Wake Walk - will be able to use a new hard path from next summer.The new path will cross access land near Jugger Howe Beck, just west of Ravenscar, a route which has traditionally been rough and tricky to negotiate.The stone pitched path will make life easier ...
And while virtually all the Eastern, Southern and Western fells have been taken there's still 17 unaccounted for in the Far Eastern Fells including Thornthwaite Crag and Grey Crag.
The 15 routes outlined in 'Walks on Wheels' are suitable for wheelchairs, pushchairs and power scooters, but open up some of the finest landscapes in the Cotswolds Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty, including quiet country paths, tranquil villages and historic market towns.
Only in the high peaks of Scotland, such as the Cairngorm plateau.
Misuse of this word confuses the issue, as wild camping discreetly on remote fells is tolerated by many landowners, like the National Trust in the Lake District."
The walk is 5.5 miles long, starts at Amberley station, West Sussex, and will feature fantastic views of Amberley Wildbrooks and ...
His early life was spent in preparatory schools along the south coast of England, and at 13, he won a scholarship to Winchester College.
Then you have the friendlier, more intimate peaks like Haystacks that offer a place to pause and take in some of the best views in Britain, or long, rolling ridges like the crest of Littledale Edge that give easy, high-level walking that is pure delight.
Campaigners and national park officers say the massive limestone extraction at Backdale - on Longstone Edge, near Bakewell - is harming the park's unique landscape.But the ...
Slovakia is a small country located in the heart of Europe uniquely blessed with highly varying landscapes and spectacular mountains.
This summer a team of around 100 nursery nurses and their colleagues from leading nursery group Bright Horizons is heading for the mountains.
Striding Edge [the famous ridge leading onto Helvellyn] would have been reasonably safe for an experienced climber, and a winter's day on Striding Edge could potentially be the best day of your life.
This waterfall's a refreshing surprise as you leave the lonely wilderness of Great Moss on your way up to Scafell.
Jessica Bruinsma, 24, from Colorado, lost her way in bad weather and fell off a cliff onto a ledge below, injuring her leg and shoulder in the process.
Conservationists have set to work on a plan to protect the peatland on the Pennine moors.
It gives you a real chance to explore this steep, rocky and unique wilderness.
This month's heavy rainfalls have led to significant surface water which means the footpaths and the archaeology are more vulnerable to damage." The risks are greatest along the popular Hadrian's Wall Path National Trail, which attracts thousands of walkers every year.
After an hour's walking along the path that cuts across the mountain at 4,000 feet we came to the first of two steep gullies which channels the melt water down steeply from almost 2,000 feet above us.
And Did Those Feet: Walking Through 2000 Years of British and Irish History' is a humorous look at famous journeys from our past including the one Bonnie Prince Charlie took to Skye disguised as Flora McDonald's maid.
Picture by Stewart Smith Photography * An ice house at Angle Tarn, near Ullswater.
Winners elsewhere include 30ft crocheted lions in Nottingham, a floating waterwheel and mill house on the River Tyne and a thin column of cloud rising to the sky in Merseyside.
The Trust was hard at work rescuing families from Fell Foot, on Windermere, when the floods were at their peak.
After this, gentle paths lead you back to Buttermere where you must decide at which pub to buy your celebratory drink- Start: Butteremere Village: NY175170 Maps: OS Explorer OL4; Harvey Superwalker Lakeland West
Not only does the sea breeze keep you fresh, but you get to bathe in the Witches' Cauldron - a deep lagoon entered through a secret tunnel beneath a waterfall.
Big cats run free in Britain
How close is the Giant's Causeway to the town?
Artist and keen hill walker Andy Beck has been following the same footsteps of writer Alfred Wainwright.
The Campaign for the Protection of Rural England (CPRE) is angry that the Department for Transport has decided not to limit the number of passenger planes flying over sensitive areas of land.
Hikers heading to Dartmoor this Easter holiday are being urged to take extra care after a series of gorse fires in the national park.
Q- You have cycled to the Continental Pole of inaccessibility and walked across Europe's watershed.
The road narrows to pass between Henllys Parish Church on left and Church Farm on right.
Facilities: Roadside parking near the Atlantic Trading Estate
Superb beaches, horse riding, the fabulous stepping stones over the river leading to a tiny, secret tea room - heaven!
There is limited parking by the church at Lavernock Point, and summer parking at St Mary's Well Bay (roadside parking only during the winter).
Public transport: Bus from Caerphilly and Cardiff to the top of Caerphilly Mountain.
Don Miller, Shenzhen, China The beach at Rest Bay is so flat - the tide goes out forever - and the wind blows hard all the time.
Jilly The best place to find foot prints is at Sully, down from the sports field where the Sunday car boot sales are held.Make your way to the beach and you cant miss them.
Facilities: Refreshments, toilets and parking available at Cliff Parade, Penarth.
By car: Limited parking is available in the museum, and there are many public car parks within the city centre.
The view was spectacular: the Bristol Channel to the south and at the top of the field behind us Twm Barlwm and the hills around it.
Public Transport: Buses to the Knap and Pontypridd Road (Nant Talwg Way) to start at Millwood
Mike Clare, Hayscastle, west Wales I sat by the ruins of Ogmore Castle on a bright beautiful morning and watched the flood of a spring tide slowly fill the car park, to see fish swim where a few hours later people would park thier cars was a little difficult to comprehend.
Pass through the big gates near the beach car park and keep heading up the path for what's arguably the best view in Wales.
Elaine, Porthcawl I work full time for the local authority and every morning before work my friend Angela and I walk this path before we go to work.
They are very close to a steeper but small cliff attached to the grassy headland.
Coral In the area around Grid Reference 865-746, both on the wave-washed platform and on horizontal bedding planes capping the low cliffs, it is possible to see large curved solitary corals, colonial corals and large brachiopod shells.
From beautiful Beech forests, to the stunning gorge carved by the River Clydach the area has much to offer walkers, climbers, mountain bikers and bird watchers - not only that but Derek's trail ends with a choice of two pubs!
From the bleak but beautiful Keepers Pond on the Blaenavon road, this walk twists around the back of the Blorenge mountain and is in the heart of what is now called Cordell country.
The central part of this walk, below the Wyndcliff, passes through more woods containing a uniquely high proportion of native yew trees.
Lorraine Prentice, Newport I always looked forward to the traditional Good Friday walk up the Tump.
Emma from Barry It's a nice area but it get's very cold on the beach area in winter and summer.
The 'bone beds' near Lavernock Point contain fish and reptile teeth, scales and bones, plus coprolites - fossilised dung!
The area is due to undergo major construction work as the heads of the Valleys road is widened and walkers are worried what impact that will have on this beautiful part of the country.
After a kilometre (just beyond an Elf petrol station) turn right into Cefn Walk (Locks Canal Centre).
The low cliffs and rock platforms along the coast from the mouth of the River Ogwr south east towards Dunraven Bay (Southerndown) provide outstanding access to some of Wales' geological heritage.
Being a former Geography teacher I found the topographical potential here fascinating; a river delta, sand dunes, exposed peninsula and much more to study.
Kevin Milkins, Wick, Caithness, Scotland Like Russ Francombe from Aberbeeg I also spent a lot of time up the dingle swimming in the old feeder for the brewery and tickling trout but we used to walk over the mountain from Cyril Place near Aber park.
Check tide times, especially between Lavernock Point and St Mary's Well Bay, to avoid getting cut off.
From there one continues through Minepit Wood, where iron ore was extracted by the Romans and then down through Limekiln Wood along an old packhorse route to Tintern.
This walk will take you across the cliff tops, it is vital that you stick to the path, steer well clear of the cliff edges.
In all seasons there is much wildlife to see - migrating birds feeding on wild berries in winter are a fine sight, water fowl overwintering on the Ogmore estury.
Iolo Williams and a dinosaur footprint Access: Bendrick Rock can be reached via a path which follows the outside of the security fence round HMS Cambria at Hayes Point, Sully.
Kenfig Hill is a good place to spot dragonflies
Parking: From the Aberbeeg roundabout, take the Six Bells road, and first left & left again for parking behind houses.
I am so very proud of my Welsh heritage and plan another visit to that lovely sea side town of Porthcawl this coming summer!
See some fascinating limestone rocks and fossils along the Glamorgan coast.
Nathan Morgan, Fernlea, Risca I have lived in Risca all my life and living on the side of Twmbarlwm I have spent many good times up Tump.
Parking: Lay-by at top of road over Caerphilly Mountain (A 469), near hot dog stall.
Karen, Newport Local History Group What a lovely View from the Tump Hill, as I know would know the Walk, It may have been a small Hill Fort, many years ago then, we use to go Wildlife Bird researching, to see who could see the most Common Birds from the Twmbarlwm Hill, Hope to walk the in the Summer, A light Walk is good for you.
I came back this past May '05 on my 50th birthday re-visiting my roots and felt totally at home with the sheep roaming the cliffs, seeing the rock pools and crabs, caves and area, how I remember it - just wonderful.
Location: 12km south of Cardiff, 12km east of Barry The multi-coloured cliff faces between Penarth and Barry are the consequence of rock deposition in varying environmental conditions.
Fossils at Ogmore The Ogmore-Ewenny area was one of those islands, and as the seas flooded the area, the hill was surrounded by a rocky-sandy shoreline just like it is today, only warmer, with the sea alive with ammonites and giant marine reptiles.
The sites are all adjacent to cliffs and at Pant-y-Slade there can be a danger from large waves.
Norman Lewis, Monmouth Garn Llwyd was a thached cottage up a track from the junction of Mountain Rd and Watford Rd.
Easy free parking at the Knapp car park.
Justin from Cwmbran Perfect for horse riding, beautiful views with loads of different tracks and easy access without using your own legs - and the horses love it.
Map: OS Explorer 151 Cardiff and Bridgend A beautiful walk through Cwm Ciddy woods, local parkland and along nearby coast enjoying fine views across the Bristol Channel to the Somerset coast.
miles Chepstow to Tintern (The full Wye Valley walk runs from Chepstow to Plynlimon and is 136 miles!
Start at the leaping salmon waymark in the romantic ruins of Chepstow Castle.
Cordell's books 'Rape of the Fair Country', 'The Fire People' and 'the Hosts of Rebecca' charted the rise and fall of the iron works in the Nant-Y-Glo and Clydach areas and are hugely popular.
Jim Pope from Malaga, ex Malpas Walked to the top we used to call the pimple many a Good Friday in the mid forties/fifties.
mark weiner from beach road I lived on Beach Road for the last 7 years and walked Newton Beach and through the dunes with my dogs everyday.
From the remains of the historic Clydach Iron Works to a garden made of concrete birds and flowers, from iron bridge relics of the industrial explosion to a footbridge linked to the Devil, from Wales' answer to Gretna Green to a cave with a Shakespearean story, this walk is a real gem with something different around every corner.
Chris Pearce-Webb, Chepstow We discovered Ogmore and Southerndown by accident whilst driving around.
Sand dunes This unique environment was once part of the largest dune system in Europe and it stretched right along the coast down to the Mumbles in Swansea.
The Millennium Stadium from the River Taff The Millennium Stadium from the River Taff Cardiff city and Bay circular Explore the rich and varied history and geology of Cardiff, as this walk passes through the present day city centre and continues out towards Cardiff Bay and returning along the banks of the River Taff.
Andrew Dyson from Cardiff Walking up to the top of the mountain was good.
Fossils can also be found on this short coastal walk from Penarth.
Ceri, Barry I spent every day every summer down Dunraven Bay when I was growing up in the local village.
Not many people mention the 'Incline' - the Inki, the long straight ancient pathway that ran from Dando's Farm, past Rossers Farm and Coed Eva straight to the base of the mountain.
Wales was situated close to the Equator at the time, under a monsoonal-type of climate, with warm, shallow tropical seas.
My great grandfather was born and raised in south Wales and later moved to America and relocated to Scranton Pennsylvania to work in its coal mines.
At Pant-y-Slade (872-741) the Jurassic shoreline sands (shelly sands full of broken molluscs) are banked against the highly irregular cliffs of Carboniferous Limestone.
Found fossilized ripple-marks on the surface of Red Triassic Marl, and random shallow rounded depressions, but no convincing 'three-toed' footprints.
Start the walk near Wyndham Street in Tynewydd.
Professor Paul Wright of Cardiff University recommends a visit to the coast to see the carboniferous limestone rocks and fossils.
In the snow we sleighed down the golf course at breakneck speed and I snared a rabbit on the school boundary fence.
Tom Sharpe, Cardiff I'm glad Steve Nott from Cwmbran has succeeded in locating the footprints to the west of the slipway.
The best being down the Bristol Channel, the Flat Holm and Steep Holm and on to Weston Super Mare and beyond and up the channel to Clevedon,Bristol and Chepstow, great!
Russ Francombe, Pontypool Having been brought up in Aberbeeg (Albert Terrace, now demolished, and New Woodland Terrace), I have fond memories of Pit Wood, Cwm Beeg and the surrounding areas, spending many, many hours as a boy roaming about the hills.
Starting Point: HMS Cambria, Sully ST137673 The Triassic formations at Bendrick Rock near Sully Hospital contain footprints of dinosaurs which once roamed the muddy sands of the lakeshore environment.
Jane King, Wiltshire When I first moved to Wales back in 1995, I lived in Risca, on the side of the Tump in Penrhiw.
Glyn and Pam Ridge We went up the mountain, because it truly is a mountain (magnificent) with my wife's brother Fred Parker and wife Judy.
A great walk on the top of Caerphilly Mountain with sweeping views over Caerphilly into the valleys and over Cardiff and the Bristol Channel, passing the Black Cock Inn, a convenient half way point.
The view is truly spectacular but if you want to get up close and personal with the fossils on the beach and this quiet and beautiful bay then there is a single track path that takes you down onto the rocks and sand.
Gwyneth Jones from Ogmore-by-Sea My husband and I built our house here in 2000 overlooking the car-park.
This route along the Wye Valley from Chepstow to Tintern is not only fascinating but dramatic.
The main cliffs are of the Jurassic Blue Lias and represent the muddy, deeper water offshore deposits around the archipelago.
Abertillery Abertillery is awesome, sun or rain it's still an adventure to walk up the great mountains we have in Abertillery !
You don't need arcades near beaches to have a good time.
Within some 15 million years the seas had closed and a mountain chain up to 4000m high (the height of the Atlas Mountains in Morocco) was beginning to form over what is now Devon and Cornwall.
Lavernock Within the Blue Lias boulders or rock platforms along the beach (away from the cliff faces for safety) you might be fortunate enough to find fossil vertebrae of extinct marine reptiles such as ichthyosaurs and plesiosaurs.
There are stunning views across South Wales from the Bristol Channel to the Brecon Beacons, and while busy roads are never far away, the walker can enjoy travelling along some of the oldest hollow lanes in Wales.
Cliff Ley from Perth, Australia Spent many enjoyable days on the mountain as a young lad.
Started from the Civic Centre car park, up over the hill and down to the canal.
A young landowner named Valentine Morris saw the potential in the area and from 1736 began to build scenic walks through the grounds of the Piercefield estate.
I think the happiest time of my life was growing up in this beautiful area with its miles and miles of wonderful coast line in every direction and good staunch friends beside me.
There are 2 car park areas that can be used to access the top by foot - one easier than the other!
Marconi gave his first wireles transmission over water to Lavernock Point from Flat Holm, in the Bristol Channel in 1897.
Alan Elsbury from Bath Somerset Ever since I was a child I have always loved walking up caerphilly mountain.
Dillwyn from Cwm Reading the post by Rita Tait reminded me of my childhood when the annual sunday school picnic and the school nature walks were all up the garden wells near the farm (Morrises).
Sal, Abertillery The A467 from Aberbeeg to Brynmawr is one of the most scenic roads ever.
The second half of the walk is all about sea air and sea views as you pass through small sandy bays and sheep filled fields.
It was inches deep in places, transforming the mountain into a winter wonderland with fantastic views of Sugar Loaf, Skirrid and the Beacons.
From this location look south east towards Witches Point in Dunraven Bay (Southerndown).
After ascending a path through the Castle Dell it is not far to the old Piercefield Estate, where the route passes through ancient woodland and takes in a number of historic viewpoints.
The walk also affords views across to Llangynidr Mountain, a popular spot for experienced cavers, as well as a panoramic view of Brynmawr which at a height of 1400 feet is the highest town in Wales.
Footpaths cross abandoned railway tracks and tram roads and the walk even cuts through an old tunnel - although be warned you need a good torch for this part of the route (and possibly wellies) as there is a bend in the tunnel and very little light once you're inside.
In front of this developing mountain chain a basin formed in south Wales that became filled with the debris as the mountains were eroded.
Alex from Plymouth The best time in my childhood was spent living in Southerndown, lots of adventure, the mystique in and around the ruins, the beach with its small sometimes tiny treasures.
Dai.com from Newport Whenever we watch the film, An Englishman Went Up a Hill and Came Down a Mountain, with Hugh Grant, we always imagine it being Twmbarlwm.
We had pigs ready for Newport market - we made a sledge out of a tin sheet covered with netting and pulled the young pigs to the waiting wagon at the bottom.
The good Friday walk was encouraged by most Sunday schools in the area of Malpas, Crindau etc because it was symbolic of Christ's walk up the hill to be crucified.
Up past Morris's farm, where milk was 3d a pint, over the brook and past the tank, then up to MaesMawr farm through the mountain gate, past the tall beech trees where the unemployed young chaps used to camp in bell tents during the thirties.
The steeply-wooded sides of this impressive gorge have remained virtually untouched by man since trees first colonised the slopes after the ice age.
Barbara Carr from Cambridge,Ontario Canada Originally from Merthyr Tydfil ,but lived in Bridgend for a few years,my husband and I love Ogmore By Sea we just love to go and sit on the rocks and watch the tide come in and just enjoy the view of the dunes and walk along the sea.
Maldwyn Evans from Pontymister All my life,I have enjoyed the walks around the mountain tops of the lower Gwent valleys and in particular the land that surrounds the Twm Barlwn 'Tump'.
At times a salt lake filled the area between Ogmore and the Mendips.
Walk over the slip road and over about 8 yards you should find an area where the footprints have been clearly marked out either with crayon or black marker.
Sion Hill from Swansea Thanks to Tom Sharpe we found the footprints by to the west of the slipway very easily but no other easily identifiable prints.
Turn right and follow the footpath out of Porthkerry into Salisbury Road'.
Iolo Williams at Nash Point Fossil vertebras of these marine reptiles have also been found at Nash Point, near Llantwit Major (SS916800); parking for a small fee, refreshments and toilet facilities are available.
Trevor Fishlock In a new four-part series on BBC Radio Wales, Trevor Fishlock follows in the footsteps of past pilgrims as he walks the Cistercian Way around Wales.
Russ Wiltshire from Risca I have just walked up to the top of Twmbarlwm with my three children and partner Caroline.
Is the West losing out to China in Africa?
Italian sailing team Luna Rossa take on South Korea in their first head-to-head in Naples, Italy.
The rise of the 'repats' April 25, 2012 -- Updated 1222 GMT (2022 HKT) A growing number of Africans are leaving crisis-hit western economies to return to their continent, seeking jobs and new economic opportunities.
Bush had left from Naval Air Station North Island (San Diego) after being brought there from Washington via Air Force One.
Zarqawi is a Sunni Muslim suspected of directing an al Qaeda-affiliated terror network stretching from the Middle East to Europe.
Plans call for 35,000 km of new roads to be built in the west over the next decade, at a cost of hundreds of billions of dollars.
He later traveled west on the Hammersmith and City line to Shepherds Bush underground where he ran off.
map In the event of an accident, nuclear fallout could travel up the east coast to the U.S. capital and as far west as Texas, according to the NOAA
GAZA CITY (CNN) -- Israeli soldiers returned to southern Gaza on Tuesday hours after U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice appeared in the West Bank calling for Israelis and Palestinians promptly to resume peace talks.
Inside the cabin, he said, conditions went from lower than normal gravitational force to twice the normal force as the plane rocked through the sky.
The pace of growth in the city accelerated after the central government announced in 2000 its 'Go West' strategy to develop the country's vast hinterland.
In the immediate future, there is not going to be a Western intervention in Syria.
I suggest we go north up the east coast, virtually at least, and begin our tour in Virginia.
In Michigan and Ohio, the problem continues to be the declines in demand due to drops in employment and population that have left empty houses in cities like Cleveland, Detroit and Flint,' said Doug Duncan, chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association.
Fighting sparked by a government-led push against 'outlaw' militias in the southern city of Basra had left more than 280 people dead by Saturday, according to Iraqi authorities.
Between the books, the ingredients, and the restaurants, Low-country cuisine will never be gone with the wind in this Southern seaport.
He was briefly assigned to counterintelligence duties in what was then East Germany before moving back to Leningrad, where he was assistant rector for international affairs at Leningrad State University.
Nuclear power has had an uphill climb in public perception since the 1945 explosions over Hiroshima and Nagasaki at the end of World War II first put the word 'atomic' onto headlines across the globe.
By holding more water in upper-river reservoirs during the summer months, the split-season plan would boost recreational interests that require higher water levels for boat docks and other structures.
Scottish Power has been testing the HS1000 sub-sea turbine in the fast flowing coastal waters of the Orkney Islands in Northern Scotland.
Johannesburg's history as a gold rush town has left the city with nuggets of grand architecture, including the art deco, Manhattan-inspired Astor Mansions, one of the city's first high-rise buildings, completed in 1932.
The money comes primarily from wealthy countries in the Middle East, in the Persian Gulf.
Christchurch is New Zealand's second biggest city and is on the eastern side of the South Island.
Population figures released in October, the first numbers made public since the quake, showed more than 10,000 people had left the city in the year to June 2011.
They left Washington on Thursday.
So when that dust then gets trapped up in the air, it comes east on the trade winds, and then it comes all the way across the ocean, about 3,500 miles, takes about 10 days to get here.
Ben Roberts, from Superyachts.com, recommends Darling Harbor, situated on the western outskirts of the Sydney central business district.
The core of the Syrian president's support in Lebanon is in the southern part of the country.
Namie, Nobutaka Takahashi's hometown, sits to the north.
The pair will host an invitation-only town hall meeting Thursday in Chesterfield County, a suburb of Richmond.
Perhaps even more grueling is the 'Deep Snow Survival' retreat, held in the Rockies.
Thousands of refugees have poured into Lebanon since the conflict in Syria began in March 2011, mostly in the north.
Most of the schools are located in the eastern half of the United States.
A roadside bomb detonated near an Iraqi police checkpoint in southern Baghdad on Friday, killing three people and wounding 15 others, an Iraqi Interior Ministry official said.
beach The EPA beach health survey will help local monitoring agencies in areas like the Great Lakes region improve water quality.
In southern Baghdad on Friday, the U.S. military reported three bombings in the Hadar neighborhood of southern Baghdad.
Oscar Wilde's Tomb in Paris, France
Three days of fighting in the southern region have left more than 100 Iraqis dead and prompted thousands to demonstrate Thursday in Shiite neighborhoods of the capital against the crackdown launched by al-Maliki.
A Baghdad academic was shot dead in western Baghdad on Wednesday, an Iraqi Interior Ministry official confirmed Thursday.
They analyzed counties dominated by shrub lands subject to periodic high-intensity wildfires from north to south, Monterey, San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, Ventura, Los Angeles, San Bernardino, Riverside, Orange and San Diego counties.
The house was built in 1930 by architect, philanthropist, author and political reformer Alden Freeman, and its design was inspired by the oldest existing house in the Western Hemisphere, the 'Alcazar de Colon' in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, the real estate firm said.
The aircraft carrier USS Kitty Hawk, which has served as a floating base for special operations personnel in the war against terrorism, has left the waters off the coast of Pakistan, a senior Pentagon official said Monday.
Net traffic will travel to the satellite through Hughes' Earth station near Los Angeles.
The main government-controlled passes are the Khyber Pass in the north, and the Chaman pass, which is a wide-open desert.
Located in the western part of Central Africa, oil-rich Gabon is one of Africa's wealthiest countries -- the land beneath Gabon is richly seamed with minerals and is being mined successfully.
At school in Gauteng Province, he was a keen rugby player and also competed in a wide range of sports from water polo to tennis and even triathlons.
High turnout was reported in the northern part of the state, which includes the Washington suburbs, and in the central part of the state, which includes the capital Richmond and the college town of Charlottesville.
Farmers and staff at the Zanzibar Butterfly Centre, near Jozani-Chawka Bay National Park on Unguja Island.
What I was going to say, though, is being able to go everywhere in America and campaign and to compete -- and I grew up in the rural south, in small towns all across the rural south, and I think I can go everywhere and compete head-to-head with John McCain.
Throughout North America, in Britain and mainland Europe
Other countries with strong tidal resources and potential sites for tidal power farms include Argentina, Chile, the U.S. and Canada.
This month, Pet Airways, the nation's first pet-only airline, will begin flying in five major cities, including New York and Los Angeles, California.
But four times more phytoplankton was found under the ice than in ice-free waters nearby.
This is one of many logistical problems faced by staff and students at Gaza Music School, the only music school in the 360 square kilometer strip of land controlled by Israel.
The world's highest third generation (3G) mobile network services base station was set up at the bottom of Mount Everest on Thursday.
With vast expanses of sparkling blue ocean, remote dive sites teeming with marine life and thousands of uninhabited tropical islands ripe for exploration, Southeast Asia is home to some of the world's finest adventure sailing spots.
More than a million people will have to move; already along the stretch of the river that leads to Chongqing, massive white billboards mark how high up the green, hilly folds of the Gorges the water will reach-135 m in the first stage, 175 m in the next.
The 200-square meter wall near Marylebone Road -- one of the UK capital's grimiest thoroughfares -- is being monitored by Imperial College, London.
They followed thousands of others making their way from their homes in North Kivu in the Democratic Republic of Congo into the Nkamirah Transit Camp across the border in Rwanda.
Lake O'Higgins is located in the Aysn region, one of the most remote areas of Patagonia.
At the same time, the international community, under the leadership of Great Britain, is beginning to deploy a modest size stabilization force to help with security in the Kabul area, and the task force may be extended to other parts of the country in the future.
Monday, five severed heads were left on a road leading to Baquba 'with Arabic writing in blood on the forehead which said, 'Join the Concerned Citizens and you will end up like this,' ' Hertling said.
A roadside bomb struck a car carrying a Baghdad municipality official, killing him and wounding another person in the car as it traveled in the western Mansour neighborhood.
Rosy-cheeked children from Bradfield College, the private school that dominates the village, carry hockey sticks on their way to the playing fields and men in tweed jackets walk dogs.
In 1995, hundreds of people, many weeping with joy, lined the streets of Gorazde in eastern Bosnia to welcome the first passenger bus into the Muslim enclave for over three years.
They are one of the rarest species of dolphins, endemic to the waters around New Zealand, with only around 8,000 animals thought to be left in the wild.
The Democratic Republic of Congo is home to eight national parks, five of which are UNESCO World Heritage Sites, as well as being home to many endangered species, making it ripe territory for eco-tourism.
So, if you crave creamy grits, sweet onions, iced tea, or hickory smoked barbecue, come hungry to the South.
Tri-State River Basins (Georgia, Alabama, Florida): pollution and water over-consumption in the Alabama and Chattahoochee Rivers and four of their tributaries.
Stretching out across the peaceful waters of the River Tweed in Peeblesshire, Scotland, the Dawyck Estate river crossing is an unlikely record breaker.
Dense green foliage is complemented by a selection of finely manicured greens and picturesque lakes, a genuine oasis amidst the concrete jungle of high rises and skyscrapers.
A short time later, another roadside bomb exploded near an Iraqi police patrol on Palestine Street in eastern Baghdad, wounding four bystanders, a ministry official said.
The largest area of drylands stretches from the Sahara to China.
It features a 30-meter-high waterfall and more than 130,000 plants from tropical climes.
Prior to their summit at Bush's ranch, the two leaders are due to meet on the sidelines of an Asia-Pacific economic summit in Shanghai, China, in October.
Basra police chief Gen. Abdul Jalil Khalaf said more than 75 percent of the city is under security force control and that troops and police have access to all areas of the city.
Safari West near Sonoma, California, offers a taste of Africa in North America.
Sonia Sotomayor, who rose from humble roots in a Bronx, New York, housing project to a high-powered legal career, was sworn in Saturday as the 111th justice of the U.S. Supreme Court.
More than 100 Scottish policemen and court officials plus scores of press have descended on the former U.S. airbase Camp Zeist, the venue for the trial, near the Netherlands' sleepy village of Soesterberg.
She also pointed out, though landing on the same runway, Southwest Airlines flights approach runway 23 from the north, turning right, while the Colgan Air flight that crashed was approaching from the south turning left.
Orange traffic cones blocked the narrow path off the main road; a half-dozen burly men stood guard with numerous vehicles parked behind them.
The Zephyr wind turbine towers over Jiminy Peak Mountain Resort in Massachusetts.
Also Sunday, a U.S. soldier was killed in southern Iraq by a roadside bomb, the military said.
Although the mobile penetration rate in rural areas was about half the national level (36%), phones were still a common sight even in the most remote villages.
Republicans also want to legalize drilling for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska and allow the processing of oil shale on public lands in the West -- two actions Democrats also oppose.
So a few years ago one student brought a dance festival from Kochi, more than 1,000 km to the south, back to the city.
West Yorkshire Police had to call in reinforcements from surrounding forces as the city was rocked by more than eight hours of violence.
The Democratic Republic of Congo is home to eight national parks, five of which are UNESCO World Heritage Sites, as well as being home to many endangered species, making it ripe territory for eco-tourism.
CNN) -- Stretching out across the peaceful waters of the River Tweed in Peeblesshire, Scotland, the Dawyck Estate river crossing is an unlikely record breaker.
In small villages, medium-sized towns and big cities, the jubilee buzz will be everywhere.
He says the project's own studies show that because butterfly farmers rely on forests near their communities to provide host plants for their butterfly farms, many farmers now support forest conservation.
Another of Hong Kong's hidden gems is the retro-chic China Club on the 13th floor of the Old Bank of China building on Bank Street.
Elsewhere in the capital, a fire broke out Monday morning at Iraq's Central Bank and spread to three floors of the five-story structure, the ministry said.
A LIvely Guide to Restaurants in the South Tour restaurants with a southern theme in seven southern states.
It ranges from deserts in the south to soft rolling grass-covered hills in the north, to dramatic steep mountain ranges and passes in the northeast.
Buck's is nestled between Silicon Valley's multi-million-dollar estates and Sand Hill Road, the Wall Street of the venture capital industry.
Discovery's mission takes it to the international space station Thursday to deliver supplies and conduct repairs.
This time though, the monarch will walk up the steps and make it into the cathedral.
People walk across the water to the island of Mozambique once the tide is out.
The landscape is bizarre, with mountains, valleys that cut 600 meters into the landscape, moon-like desert plains and huge sand dunes Photographer Claudius Schulze
But leaving the dams in place carries heavy economic costs as well, damaging the local sport fishing business and commercial fisheries from Alaska to California.
Without cars or roads, the island preserves a charming ambiance with faded buildings revealing its European colonial history.
As the security improves, life is returning to normal in communities across Iraq, with children back in school and shops reopening and markets bustling with commerce,' he said.
Thousands of riot police moved from street to street Friday in Cairo, Egypt, racing against a wave of angry antiwar protesters headed to the U.S. Embassy and the Arab League headquarters.
The ancient Silk Road was one of the greatest trade routes ever, stretching from Asia to the Roman Empire.
The low-energy, horseshoe-shaped structure uses water from the nearby lake for heating and cooling.
But, as you know in this state, especially if you go to the south of here, along the border, and in other border states, to many people it's a much more personal question.
WASHINGTON (CNN) -- Vice President Dick Cheney will travel to the Middle East next week, including stops in Israel and the Palestinian territories, his office said Monday.
VAN DYK: Since the time of Peter the Great, Russia, later the Soviet Union, has wanted warm water ports, access to the Indian Ocean.
Dams on the Lower Snake River, including the Lower Granite Dam, are threatening salmon and steelhead populations
The dense swamp forest habitat is home to hundreds of chimpanzees, say conservationists.
Last August, gunmen from Sinai crossed into Israel and ambushed vehicles on a desert highway, killing eight Israelis.
On a recent morning only several hundred visitors stood atop Mount Sinai, popular worldwide among Christian tourists who come at sunrise to see Moses' cave.
Kansai Electric Power Co. officials say bringing the two reactors online is needed to help avert a power crunch in Osaka, Japan's second-largest metropolis, and other areas in the west.
ATHENS, Greece (AP) - A major fire south of the Greek capital raged for the second day Sunday, as gale-force winds were rekindling the flames and three new fronts broke out.
Forest and brush fires are common in the hot, dry summer months in Greece.
But while safety concerns still run deep, Saturday's decision could speed up efforts to get more plants running across the country.
Strong north winds were fanning the flames and hampering efforts to control the blaze, which was burning near sparsely populated areas.
More than 250 firefighters and soldiers using more than 60 vehicles were battling the flames in a sparsely populated area south of Athens, along with four water-dropping planes and a helicopter, the fire department said.
Edmonton Police Service via AP Travis Brandon Baumgartner, 21, was stopped near a border crossing in Lynden, Washington.
Many of the disappointed fans headed instead to Yonge-Dundas Square in downtown Toronto, where Spinner Magazine was hosting a free concert headlined by the Flaming Lips as part of the weeklong North by Northeast musical festival.
The campaign focused on local issues but will determine the country's political direction, which has Europe-wide importance.
JERUSALEM (AP) - Militants infiltrated Israel early on Monday, opening anti-tank fire against Israeli civilians building a security fence along the border with Egypt's turbulent Sinai Peninsula, the military said.
The Sinai Peninsula, a mountainous land home to indigenous Bedouin tribes that shares borders with Israel and the Gaza Strip, has witnessed the consequences of this.
The prisoners also barricaded the ward's entrance using beds and other furnishings, hampering rescue efforts by guards, Justice Minister Sadullah Ergin told reporters after he and other ministers visited the prison in the city near the border with Syria.
In Canada, one person died and several people were injured when the stage went down at Bluesfest in Ottawa last July, and one person died and more than a dozen were injured in 2009 when a powerful windstorm caused the main stage to collapse at the Big Valley Jamboree near Camrose
Suu Kyi received two standing ovations inside Oslo's city hall as she gave her long-delayed acceptance speech to the Norwegian Nobel Committee in front of Norway's King Harald, Queen Sonja and about 600 dignitaries.
Mike Kensey, 26, said he arrived at the venue hours early to get a spot close the stage and see the opening act by Canadian band Caribou.
ATHENS - A pro-Europe party appears to have narrowly won the most votes in the Greek elections Sunday, an outcome that has calmed markets but still leaves plenty to worry about in Europe's economy.
God willing, when Mohammed Morsi becomes president, everything will be fine,' said Osama Ibrahim, a driver from the seaport city of Suez, vowing his support for the Muslim Brotherhood's candidate in the election.
Nayef, who was interior minister in charge of internal security forces since 1975, built up his power in the kingdom though his fierce crackdown against al-Qaeda's branch in the country following the Sept.
Benito Ramos, who heads the government's disaster-response agency, says people felt the quake in Manila and some northern agricultural provinces, rousing some residents.
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP) - Crown Prince Nayef, the hardline interior minister who spearheaded Saudi Arabia's fierce crackdown crushing al-Qaeda's branch in the country after the 9/11 attacks in the United States and then rose to become next in line to the throne, has died.
Joseph McGuire, 28, said he drove from Warren, Michigan, to attend the concert.
Bob Hassel said in a news release that Travis Baumgartner was stopped near a border crossing in Lynden, Washington, southwest of Abbotsford, British Columbia.
Power was cut to the area to facilitate water-dropping planes, authorities said.
His elevation to crown prince in November 2011, after the death of his brother Sultan, had raised worries among liberals in the kingdom that, if he ever became king, he would halt or even roll back reforms that Abdullah had enacted.
PARIS (AP) - French voters are choosing a new parliament Sunday that will determine how far Socialist President Francois Hollande can push for economic stimulus in France and around a debt-burdened, stagnant Europe.
The Observatory said more than 50 people were killed in clashes and shelling in towns close to Damascus, in the central provinces of Homs and Hama, in the seaside province of Latakia, the northern provinces of Idlib and Deir al-Zour and the southern province of Daraa.
Much of the initial surge of White House two years ago was concentrated in Helmand and the province's sprawling farming region of Marjah, a key poppy growing area largely controlled by insurgents.
Afghan security forces conduct a poppy eradication operation in Baghlan province, Afghanistan, on June 1.
In 2009, Nayef promptly shut down a film festival in the Red Sea port city of Jiddah, apparently because of conservatives' worry about the possibility of gender mixing in theaters and a general distaste toward film as immoral.
Baumgartner was the fifth member of a G4S Cash Solutions crew that was re-loading bank machines at a University of Alberta mall and residence where the shooting happened, police said.
Egyptian election workers count votes at a polling station Sunday in Cairo.
Travis Brandon Baumgartner, 21, was stopped near a border crossing in Lynden, Washington.
By Saturday night, the fire was raging on a 12-kilometer (7.5-mile) front to the west and south of the town of Keratea, 50 kilometers (30 miles) south of Athens.
By Nathan Denette, The Canadian Press, via AP Emergency personnel work at the scene of a collapsed stage in Toronto on Saturday.
Suspect in Canada campus shooting arrested at U.S. border Police say the man wanted in a deadly armored car heist at a university in western Canada has been arrested by U.S. border officials.
In response to the growing threat, Israel has increased its surveillance on the Egyptian border and is building an electronic barrier along the 230-kilometer (150-mile) frontier in a bid to keep out both militants and illegal migrants from Africa.
Meanwhile, police used pepper gas to disperse families and protesters who attempted to make their way through a road block to reach the prison, the state-run Anadolu Agency reported.
This year farmers grew poppy on about 143,000 acres in Helmand province, down from its peak of nearly 256,000 acres in 2008, according to Regional Command Southwest.
Those included 12 people, including a man, his wife and child, who died during overnight government shelling in the Damascus suburb of Duma and seven killed by a mortar shell that ripped apart a bakery in Homs, according to Abdul-Rahman.
MANILA, Philippines (AP) - Philippine officials say a strong quake has jolted Manila and outlying provinces, rousing some people from their sleep.
Poppy cultivation in Afghanistan's key opium producing region has declined 40% over the past four years as coalition and government forces have secured key towns and villages and the Afghan government has ramped up eradication.
SINAI, Egypt - Moussa Salama Moussa navigated Mount Sinai's treacherous cliffs by the glow of the moon and stars almost every night for 25 years - until Egypt's revolution.
By Hadi Mizban, AP Iraqi security forces and civilians inspect the scene of a car bomb attack in the Kazimiyah area of Baghdad, Iraq.
Jean-Marc Ayrault, France's Prime Minister and Socialist Party (PS) candidate in the 3rd constituency of the Loire-Atlantique, casts his ballot for the second round of the French parliamentary elections on Sunday.
Relatives of prisoners wait as Turkish policemen and soldiers stand guard in front of Sanliurfa city prison on Sunday.
Officials from the Ontario Ministry of Labor searched through the wreckage for clues to the cause of the collapse Saturday in Downsview Park.
Several shops and vehicles were also badly damaged in the attack in the town of Landi Kotal in the Khyber tribal region near the main border crossing point of Torkham, government administrator Khalid Mumtaz told The Associated Press.
Six people died last August when the stage collapsed at a Sugarland concert in Indianapolis; five died in Belgium when a storm swept in and toppled the stage at the Pukkelpop Festival.
The decision paves the way for a power company in western Japan to immediately begin work to restart two reactors in Ohi town, a process that is expected to take several weeks.
View Full Caption South Korean Navy rear admiral Park Jung-Soo talks in front of the wreckage of the naval vessel Cheonan, which was sunk on March 26 near the maritime border with North Korea, at the Second Fleet Command's naval base on May 20, 2010 in Pyeongtaek, South Korea.
He still has family in the North.
It said North's Navy forces have been recently deploying more submarines and developing new ground-to-ship and ship-to-ship missiles near the west seas of the peninsula.
Militants crossed from Egypt's turbulent Sinai Peninsula into southern Israel on Monday and opened fire on civilians building a border security fence, defense officials said.
VIDEO: Surging waters sweep vehicles under a road bridge in Miyagi Prefecture, Japan.
She studied politics, philosophy and economics at Oxford University's then-women-only St. Hugh's College, a handsome collection of red brick Edwardian buildings set in extensive gardens.
The G-20 summit starts in Los Cabos on Monday.
The Tumen River in the north and Yalu River in the South along the China-North Korean border are two frequent crossing points for North Koreans seeking refuge.
The Russian news agency Interfax quoted an unnamed security source who said that Moscow is adopting some security measures in its Far Eastern regions, 'in case a military conflict, perhaps with the use of nuclear weapons, flares up on the Korean Peninsula.
As the frontier area grew more volatile following Mubarak's ouster, Israel allowed thousands more Egyptian troops to police the area and has beefed up its own military deployment along the border.
Monday's docking also was completed by remote control from a ground base in China.
But Dalian model is pretty realistic enough to apply to their special economic zone, like Rajin-Sonbong,' referring to a northeastern port area where borders meet with Russia and China.
Gaza, a small, densely populated territory, borders Egypt's Sinai Peninsula.
Among many sites, North Koreans chose this place for a good reason,' says Young-Tae Jeung, a senior researcher at the Korea Institute for National Unification.
His entourage of up to 50 cars, buses, police vehicles, and an ambulance moved in and out of Dalian city for two days, visiting places like the Dalian Development Free Trade Zone where thousands of American, Japanese, and South Korean companies own factories.
A bomb tore into a bus heading to a university in southwestern Pakistan on Monday, killing five students and injuring more than 50 people, police said.
According to the Royal Navy, the ship's commanding officer Mark Newland said, 'This is a fantastic start to HMS Iron Duke's North Atlantic Deployment.
Two American television journalists have been detained by the North Korean army at the Tumen River area near Yanji, China.
These rescue efforts are underway near Baengnyeong Island, at the western tip of a disputed maritime border between South and North Korea, where a blast ripped a 1,200-ton South Korean ship apart during a patrol mission.
China says it will pull out its fishing boats from a disputed shoal in the South China Sea following a similar move by the Philippines.
Fears that Greek voters would instead choose an anti-bailout government and possibly force the country's exit from the currency union had haunted the gathering in this sunbaked Mexican resort, where the crisis facing Greece, Spain, Italy and other European economies have taken center stage.
Houses, barges, oil slicks, capsized boats, and cars fill the mile wide debris field.
In November President Bush hosted Mohammed at Camp David for the second time this year, a sign of America's close ties with the UAE.
A massive 8.8-magnitude earthquake shook Japan, unleashing a powerful tsunami that sent ships crashing into the shore and carried cars through the streets of coastal towns.
Last June, the North blew up the cooling tower in Yongbyon in full view of international media to symbolize its commitment to the talks.
KEPCO provides power to Kansai, the area around Osaka, Japan's third-largest city.
The film shows a market in On-sung, Ham-Kyung Province, a small town at the northern tip of North Korea bordering China.
I moved to the west after I got divorced,' Matsuhashi said.
The area has been established in December 1991 as North Korea's first free trade zone but attempts to develop the area have failed so far.
A volcano in Iceland sparks fears of flooding as it erupts under a sheet of ice.
The first project started nine years ago at Kumkang Mountain Resort on North Korea's eastern coast, that has attracted 1.72 million tourists so far.
A few miles away, off the country's east coast, North Korea test-fired three short-range missiles during the day, according to South Korea's Yonhap News agency.
Gaesong, with its scenic waterfalls, historic Buddhist temples and tombs of kings is home to many legends and story tales.
The magnitude of the growing threat from Sinai was driven home last August, when gunmen from Sinai infiltrated Israel and ambushed vehicles on a desert highway, killing eight Israelis.
The core would melt through the steel holding structure and plunge in a burning, molten mass into the concrete containment structure.
In many ways, Taftanaz, a jumble of simple concrete homes surrounded by golden wheat fields some 15 kilometers (9 miles) from the northern city of Idlib, tells the story of Syria's uprising, writ small.
Many in Tokyo spent the night in their cars trying to get home because the highways were all closed and cars clogged the city's streets.
View Full Caption In this Thursday, June 14, 2012 photo an Israeli children pray with their families in a reformist Jewish synagogue, in Mevasseret Zion near Jerusalem.
North Koreans have already dug an underground tunnel around the Dongchang-ni area, confirmed in 1998, according to Chang Kwoun Park, director of the Korea Institute for Defense Analyses.
Excavators will be hauled in to dig out radiated top soil from parks and large fields.
Oxford looks much the same as when she left, a traffic-clogged jumble of spires and bridges and Gothic college buildings.
The city is home to auto parts and assembly plants such as Suzuki Motor Corp.
Report: Russia to Send Marines to Syria
At least four more Navy ships will be arriving in the days to come to assist with relief efforts.
This is the region where North Korea had conducted their first underground long-range missile on April 5 that drew censure from the U.N. Security Council.
Still due to arrive Sunday night were major players in the European crisis such as German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Francois Hollande.
View Full Caption Tourists enjoy the beach of San Jose del Cabo in Mexico's Baja California Peninsula as a Mexican Navy boat patrol on Sunday, June 17, 2012.
He was sent back to his native country in March without being able to say goodbye to his family.
Areas once home to 80,000 people are now ghost towns, frozen in time.
According to South Korea's Yonhap news agency, which cited an unnamed government source, two missiles -- one ground-to-air, the other ground-to-ship -- with a range of about 80 miles were test fired from an east coast launch pad today.
As part of its landmark first peace treaty with an Arab state, Israel agreed in 1979 to return the Sinai, captured in the 1967 Mideast war, to Egypt, but insisted the vast desert triangle separating Asia from Africa be significantly demilitarized.
Takuji Yoshitomi, one of the magazine's sales representatives, stands on a street corner in central Tokyo seven days a week where he sells between 15 to 20 copies a day.
North Korea's Gitdaeryeong missile launch site off the east coast in Gangwon province has also been under tight surveillance by neighboring countries.
We are in one of those periods where there is threatening talk coming from the North and we will have to try to figure out how to deal with them going forward,' Clinton told reporters on the plane.
I used to peek inside the curtained window when high-level artists came to our hometown, all the way from Pyongyang just to fix cracks on those portraits hanging on top of the community center,' said Sunmu, who has lived under an assumed name since his defection to South Korea.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon also expressed his regret at the tests during a news conference today in Helsinki.
In seaside communities, large fishing boats line the side of the road, next to piles of debris.
VIDEO: Watch what happened when a 6-foot deep sinkhole opened on a busy road.
Shim, at age 67, left his hometown in North Korea when he was 11, during the Korean War.
The highway is empty except for civil defense vehicles, aid workers, fire trucks and trucks laden with gear headed to the devastated area.
Calls of support poured in from all over the world, including the U.S. Hundreds of boxes of food and relief supplies followed.
View Full Size PHOTO: A deserted street inside the contaminated exclusion zone around the crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co. David Guttenfelder/Bloomberg/Getty Images A deserted street inside the contaminated exclusion zone around the crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co.
That assessment counters several reports from Japanese media that North Korea is highly likely to fire a long-range missile toward Hawaii.
The second set of two short-range missiles were fired from Wonsan, Kangwon province, only 45 miles north of the North-South border.
Crews must now wash down every street, the rooftops of every home, the walls of contaminated buildings.
Breaking a decades-old deadlock over the management of public lands in the West, Democrats in the House and Senate today agreed to raise the fees that ranchers pay to graze cattle and sheep on about 260 million acres of Federal land in 16 western states.
The guard, Nina Dale, suffered a minor arm wound from one of three shots fired by a man who entered and left the plant grounds through a cut in a fence, a company spokesman said.
The Americans were said to have been unable to actually recover the so- called ''black boxes'' of the ill-fated passenger plane but to know specifically where to look: a point west of tiny Moneron Island at a depth of 2,500 feet in international waters.
U.S. and South Korea in Landmark Trade Deal
The prairie monotony along Highway 85 south in Butte County, S.D., is broken by a sign reading: this way, 7.8 miles, to the CENTER OF THE NATION.
Forest Service Backs a Plan To Protect Owls in Northwest
On a normal Sunday afternoon in August, the six-mile stretch of sun- drenched beach known as the Jamaica area on this Gulf Coast island would be as crowded as Coney Island.
The prairie monotony along Highway 85 south in Butte County, S.D., is broken by a sign reading: this way, 7.8 miles, to the CENTER OF THE NATION.
The high alpine country near the grave of Ernest Hemingway is some of the prettiest public land in America, with its flower meadows, wild horses and views of the tallest mountains in Idaho.
LEAD: President Reagan has signed into law legislation intended to control infectious medical wastes like those that washed up on Atlantic Coast beaches last summer, White House officials said today.
In a quiet revolution, the United States, long derided as an industrial has-been, has become one of the world's low-cost manufacturers -- lower in many industries than Canada, Europe and Japan.
A 60-year- old man left the port of Takamatsu today in a 42-foot steel boat, hoping to become the first person to row from Japan to North America.
Despite the challenges posed by rattlesnakes, dirt roads and a fickle water well, Brett Nybo likes the solitude of life in this dusty, remote hollow.
Snow covered 6 million square miles of North America, topping the 5.1 million record set in November 1973, the agency said.
But never before have the newly arriving been so diverse: from Africa, Asia, Europe and Latin America.
The apple farmers here in the nation's most productive fruit-growing region, who have spent more than decade setting up 3,500 acres of orchards to meet Japan'...
Estimates supplied by local police authorities put the number of demonstrators in West Germany at over 620,000.
The amendment's purpose is to limit Federal flood insurance protection of coastal property at high risk from erosion.
A case in point is a bill that would require the Environmental Protection Agency to set standards for protecting what are estimated to be 15 million school children from health-threatening asbestos in 31,000 school buildings around the country and, at the same time, require school boards to m...
Pres Obama's trip out West to promote his health care plan will include trout fishing in Montana with Jim Messina, wildlife enthusiast who is Obama's deputy chief of staff August 14, 2009 MORE ON THE UNITED STATES AND: HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE, MEDICINE AND HEALTH, FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE, MESSINA, JIM
The apple farmers here in the nation's most productive fruit-growing region, who have spent more than decade setting up 3,500 acres of orchards to meet Japan'...
LEAD: Along the East Coast, where tides have been running an ugly brown and garbage washes ashore, where some waters have become unsafe for swimming and lethal to a multitude of fish, the summer of 1987 should be viewed as a cautionary tale, environmental experts and Government officials say.
Throughout Mexico, popular resort areas such as Acapulco and Cancun have remained eerily empty even at the height of the normal winter vacation season.
He was about 1,000 miles east of Japan at the time.
Even in Houston, where high fences are commonplace, the compound looks strangely out of place on the edge of a residential neighborhood, just off a major interstate highway.
In the debate over how to prevent illegal immigration from Mexico into the United States, few politicians have voiced concern over the profound effects a 700-mile-long 15-foot-high fence would have on wildlife.
NAME the country drained by the Amazon River, American college students were asked in a 1950 survey, and 77.5 percent of them correctly said Brazil.
After two hours of driving along desert roads, trekking through vaulting canyons and climbing rock embankments, Antonio Cubillo and his group of seven narcotics agents came to a small emerald-green valley.
Satellite photographs showed snow covering 9.2 million square miles of Europe and Asia, breaking the record set of 7.8 million, also set in November 1973.
LEAD: At his meeting in Colombia on Thursday, President Bush is likely to try to revive a United States proposal to deploy Navy warships off South America to monitor drug-trafficking flights, senior Administration officials said today.
The bill is a cornucopia of money for specific highway projects, locks and dams, parks, libraries, airports, museums, zoos, hospitals and schools in every corner of the country.
Agricultural experts are calling for an international research effort to thwart the new fungal variants, which are well-established throughout Europe and into Russia, as well as in Mexico and South American countries including Ecuador, Brazil and Argentina.
Agriculture Secretary John R. Block and Labor Secretary Raymond J. Donovan are in sharp disagreement over the wage rates to be paid to aliens who come legally to this country to harvest fruit, vegetables and other crops.
A snowstorm that left almost a million people in the South without power swept across the big cities of the Northeast yesterday as the death toll in the week's record cold wave reached 143.
Transport Minister Jean-Luc Pepin announced early this morning that full air traffic service would be restored between the United States and Canada at 8 A.M. eastern daylight time today.
But the fires, most of them caused by lightning, have burned on despite their efforts, blackening entire river valleys and sweeping through the mountains, destroying 1,153 square miles, an area almost the size of Rhode Island.
LEAD: AN American oceanographic research ship entered Soviet waters yesterday on an expedition that scientists of both countries said could begin a new era of cooperation in American-Soviet marine research.
The homeland security secretary waived several environmental laws to continue building a border fence through a national conservation area in Arizona.
In 1872, the Sioux Indians still roamed free over part of the northern Plains, Wyatt Earp had yet to draw a bead on the Clanton gang and President Ulysses S. Grant signed two laws that would shape the American West.
Western cattle ranchers stand to gain a large measure of control over land and water resources on 170 million acres of Federal land under policy changes initiated by the Reagan Administration.
But the plan does signal a historic shift in the way the Federal Government will manage more than 23 million acres of public forests in America's timber basket.
LEAD: The Senate voted today to let the timber industry cut virgin forests in the Northwest despite temporary court injunctions against the logging.
A report for Congress released today charges that the Interior Department is continuing to permit mining claims on public lands designated for parks, wilderness areas and other nonexploitative purposes.
It's not going to be safe there when "The Wave" makes it from the Middle East to South America to rumble the authoritarian regimes south of the border.
The Queen had left the All England Club by the time Rafael Nadal took to Center Court on Thursday and scrapped his way to a five-set victory over Dutchman Robin Haase.
As water tankers race across northern Mexico to reach far-flung towns, and crops wither in the fields, the government has allotted 34 billion pesos ($2.65 billion) in emergency aid to confront the worst drought ever recorded in the country.
The two exchange operators wanted to team up to cut costs, fight growing pressure from alternative trading platforms and avoid being left behind as rivals in North America and Europe get together.
Security has been raised at hotels in the Chinese border city of Dandong, which looks into North Korea across the Yalu River, suggesting that Kim may be headed home rather than other parts of China.
The resulting tsunami turned inland areas into vast marshes, and it is here and by the sea that search crews were looking on Sunday.
El Salvador, already seeing lower growth rates than the rest of the region, had its credit rating slashed by Standard & Poor's this month.
This follows recent news that Saudi production is stronger and that a large number of VLCCs (very large crude carriers) are headed from the Middle East to the U.S.'
At an orphanage in Hwangju town, across the provincial border in North Hwanghae province, 11 of 12 children in the clinic were critically malnourished.
Around 1,500 Syrian women and children crossed into northern Lebanon on Thursday, witnesses said, fleeing gunfire in the Syrian border town of Tel Kelakh.
North Korea fires artillery in the direction of a South Korean island, drawing return fire from the South, according to South Korean TV.
Fighting has also spread to the west, across a north-south cease-fire line in place since the end of a 2002-3 civil war, increasing fears that an election meant to reunite the country will instead reignite the conflict.
Millions have left the country, taking refuge in neighbouring countries like Togo.
Landlocked South Sudan took about three-quarters of Sudan's oil output when it broke away, but still needs pipelines running through its northern neighbor to export crude.
Several thousand pro-Ouattara fighters entered Abidjan from the north in a convoy of transporters, pick-ups mounted with heavy machineguns, and 4x4s loaded with fighters bearing Kalashnikovs and rocket launchers.
United Airlines, the world's biggest airline that has eastern hubs at Washington Dulles and Newark, will cancel 2,300 flights.
In Europe: Spain is the latest European economy to fall into recession, leading stocks lower in Germany and the U.K. France was much lower due to political concerns.
Many in the market said the euro would head lower in the medium term given the risks that budget and debt problems in Spain will worsen.
Protesters at Sunday's demonstration called on the Japanese government to shut down all nuclear power plants in the country and increase the level of aid to survivors of last month's earthquake and tsunami- that has left more than 27,000 people dead or missing Government officials have confirmed that radiation at the Fukushima Daiichi complex has leaked into the sea, food, drinking water and air in Northern Japan.
The country's dysfunctional food-distribution system, rising global commodities prices and sanctions imposed over Pyongyang's nuclear and missile programs had contributed to what appears to be a hunger crisis in the North, even before devastating summer floods and typhoons compounded the emergency.
This video posted to a social media website is purportedly from the eastern part of the country.
The stock that we have will run out, we are running out of everything Along the eastern front in the port city of Brega, an ongoing battle between rebels and Gaddafi forces came to a head Wednesday.
Beijing's main Chang'an Avenue was lined with soldiers and lanes heading east toward Tiananmen Square were sealed in the late afternoon while a motorcade escorted by a phalanx of police cars whizzed past, apparently taking Kim to a reception at the Great Hall of the People next to the square.
At the Egyptian border, officials loyal to Gaddafi had gone and local committees were, being organised across eastern towns to provide services, local people said.
The war has split the oil producer, Africa's fourth biggest, into a government-held western area round the capital Tripoli and an eastern region held by ragged but dedicated rebels.
Germany: The only sovereign left in Europe?
Oil can still be shipped from the Middle East to Europe by sailing around Africa, adding around 15-20 days of travel time and increasing freight costs.
Workers repair electricity lines on the road from the rebel-held city of Misrata to the western frontline in this June 20, 2011 file photo.
He will travel to London, Edinburgh, Dundee, and Inverness, as well as meeting parliamentarians at Westminster and Holyrood.
Opposition forces are largely in control of Libya's oil facilities, which are mostly located in the east.
Security forces flocked to Guadalajara, home to 4.5 million people and famed for its mustachioed musicians in wide-brimmed sombreros and top-flight soccer team, last month as the city hosted the Pan American Games, but have since left the city.
Turkey, a NATO member that aspires to join the European Union as well as a secular Muslim nation straddling Europe and Asia, has deepened economic and financial ties with Iran despite Western efforts to put the squeeze on the Islamic Republic.
Flood waters rose in low areas, and alarm levels have been raised as rivers began overflowing in Manila.
In contrast, there was little change in Gulf Coast inventories, and a drop in supplies on the East Coast the report showed.
Dau said that four cargoes in question had not left the port yet, but that its agent in Sudan had been told to prepare documentation, meaning it was possible they could leave on Sunday or on Monday.
The Afar province's rock-strewn hills give way to vast deserts below sea level, and dry river-beds and acacia thorn-trees dot the landscape.
The Company operates in three regions: Asia, Africa and Central and Eastern Europe (Asia Africa CEE), the Americas and Western Europe.
Sustained anti-aircraft fire was heard coming from the north and northeastern sections of Tripoli, Gaddafi's power base, on Saturday evening, a Reuters correspondent in the capital said.
Speaking at a business forum in southern China on Friday, President Hu Jintao said that the country's economic model was still out of kilter.
Petrol prices are advertised at a petrol station in Ronda, near Malaga, southern Spain March 4, 2011.
Trading in Asia was upbeat overnight, with the MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan rising 0.8 percent.
On the other side of the same highway, police set up a roadblock preventing any cars moving from the airport toward the financial area.
Inventories have risen to record levels at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for West Texas Intermediate, the New York Mercantile Exchange's light sweet crude benchmark.
People walk along a flooded street in Ishimaki City, Miyagi Prefecture in northern Japan, after an earthquake and tsunami struck the area, March 13, 2011.
Known as 'Africa's Kingdom of Pleasure,' this luxury resort and casino complex, just two hours from Johannesburg, boasts two large casinos, two 18-hole golf courses and a wildlife reserve.
School children at this primary school in Tunis returned to class for the first time in two weeks.
local time at Downsview Park, about 5 miles north of downtown Toronto, local media reported.
Misrata, Libya's third largest city, rose up with other towns against Gaddafi in mid-February after a security crackdown snuffed out most peaceful protests in the west.
Apple's sales in the United States were particularly strong, with revenue rising 90 percent in the Americas region.
Metro-North Railroad lines between New York and some towns in Connecticut, including New Canaan, Danbury and Waterbury, were out of service.
South Korea on Friday reaffirmed an offer to send emergency relief supplies to its neighbour but not building materials and equipment the North later asked for.
Both of our tankers have left the port of Es Sider, fully loaded and are sailing to Italy,' an official at Greece's Polembros Shipping Ltd told Reuters.
Clinton spoke to Jordan's King Abdullah -- another close U.S. ally -- on Thursday to discuss Egypt and to express support for his own recent reforms, part of a wave of change by authoritarian governments across the Middle East seeking to head off Egypt-style unrest.
In central Manama, many are starting to call Pearl Square 'Martyrs' Circle,' in memory of the four people killed in Thursday's night-time raid by riot police to clear the area.
The focal point of the diamond jubilee festivities will take place over four days in June, including a 1,000-ship pageant on the River Thames through London and a concert at Buckingham Palace.
At least nine towns in the east were under the control of protesters loyal to tribal groups, the president of the International Federation for Human Rights in France said.
WASHINGTON - Climate change will make wildfires in the West, like those now raging in parts of Colorado and New Mexico, more frequent over the next 30 years, researchers reported on Tuesday.
They are coming from the eastern side and also trying to get in from the west and the south.
Deadly violence on Israel's Egypt, Gaza borders
From Johannesburg's 90,000-capacity Soccer City, Africa's biggest stadium, to Durban's arch-spanned arena and Cape Town's bath-shaped bowl -- both fronting the ocean -- the soccer fields are more than sports venues.
The plant will meet the growing need for fuel-efficient subcompact vehicles made in North America for the region, American Honda President Tetsuo Iwamura said.
In New York, U.S. President Barack Obama met firefighters and visited Ground Zero in Lower Manhattan to offer comfort to a city still scarred by the September 11, 2001, attacks masterminded by bin Laden that killed nearly 3,000 people.
A Raffles City mall is due to open this year in Ningbo, a city of 6 million, plus another 4 million migrant workers, which sits about 250 km (150 miles) south of Shanghai.
The sea of red pulp is in honor of Colombian farmers and it celebrates the end of fall in the southern hemisphere, and the end of a year of hard work.
Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner is flying to Europe next week to press the urgency of the matter, meeting politicians from France, Germany, Spain and Italy, as well as the European Central Bank.
The waters of Manila Bay overflowed onto Roxas Boulevard, flooding streets and parks around the U.S. embassy, central bank and finance department, with the water waist deep in parts.
SEOUL (Reuters) - South Korea has raised the pieces of its warship that exploded and sank near a contested sea border with North Korea and will look for clues that may point to Pyongyang as the culprit in the deadly incident.
A destroyed landscape is pictured in Onagawa, Miyagi Prefecture in northern Japan, after an earthquake and tsunami struck the area, March 13, 2011.
In the coastal hamlet of Cowley Beach, steel roofs were torn from houses and twisted around power poles.
She will continue in Venezuela, Argentina and Brazil before heading to North America and Europe.
A basket of flowers hangs near Gap Inc's flagship retail store at the Powell Street cable car turn in San Francisco, California August 20, 2009.
In the second quarter, Simmons projects production will decline 3 percent for integrated oil companies, due in part to flooding in North America, continued unrest in the Middle East and North Africa and the effect of higher prices on production sharing contracts.
Davis said there will be 'tremendous growth in western China over the next five years and we think we are in a position to well serve that market.
Northeast floods after Irene's torrential rains (0:58)
Ocean waves up to 2 meters (6.6 feet) above normal sea level were detected by deep-ocean gauges near Wake island, Midway and Guam in the North Pacific, said Chip McCreary, a spokesman for the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center.
The incident took place in the east of Brega where fighting had gone back and forth on the road to Ajdabiyah.
The only major city held by insurgents outside the east is Misrata, 200 km (130 miles) east of the capital.
Lee attended the funeral services held at the home base of the navy corvette Cheonan in this west coast port city 200 km (125 miles) from the disputed waters bordering the North where it sank.
Marcoly added that they will be pushing the film into Southern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Asia this summer, focusing on its comedic value in those markets, rather than Baron Cohen's star status.
Alberta Investment Management Corp and Australia New Zealand Forest Fund are buying the timberland assets of Great Southern Plantations, which include more than 2,500 square km (965 square miles) of land in forestry and agricultural regions in six Australian states.
The four bedroom, four bath townhouse, complete with roof deck, is located in the tony Tribeca area in Manhattan.
June 17 - Kitted out in Wellington boots, Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge, vists inner-city school children staying in the countryside.
A wind powered energy station stands in front of the chimney of a refinery of French oil producer Total near the eastern German town of Leuna south of Leipzig March 25, 2004.
The Hawaii evacuation zone included the famous Waikiki Beach, the main hotel and tourist hub in Honolulu on the island of Oahu.
true, with time, the flood waters will recede back to their normal levels, as the flood water flows out downstream, but then .can that restore all the damage it had caused?
Over 200 Grad missiles fell on the port area, including residential neighborhoods near the port.
Televisions are scattered in a street in Hiachinohe, Aomori Prefecture in northern Japan, after an earthquake and tsunami struck the area, March 13, 2011.
Some are brought from the capital Tripoli, half an hour's drive to the east.
This is her first trip to the West after spending more than two decades under house arrest in Myanmar.
Hidden in the Tabernas desert in Andalusia stands a 115-foot-high tulip that can generate enough power to produce electricity for 35 houses.
June 1 - Officials consider evacuating towns and villages surrounding Mexico's famed Popocatepetl volcano.
The island of Kauai is expected to be first hit because the tsunami was advancing from the west and would likely take 20 to 30 minutes to cross the entire state, McCreary said.
Many secondary roads throughout the Northeast were blocked by fallen trees, downed power lines and flooding.
In the euro area, trading was light ahead of May Day holiday on Tuesday, elections in France and Greece at the weekend and a European Central Bank meeting on Thursday where policymakers will have to consider the region's worsening economic health.
We will fight, from place to place, from city to city, from valley to valley, from mountain to mountain, let there be a long war, and we will show them they cannot rule Libya and the Libyan people.
Tropical storm force winds are expected to begin along the mid-Atlantic coast Saturday morning with hurricane conditions expected by Saturday afternoon,' the NHC said in its final advisory Friday night.
The most important oil transit channel in the world, with some 15.5 million barrels per day, or about a third of all seaborne oil, passing through in 2009, according to the U.S.Energy Information Administration (EIA).
Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti arrives at a Washington DC airport Friday (May 18) for a G8 summit at Camp David this weekend.
Murder, extortion and kidnapping have spread fear in the city of 4 million people that lies about 140 miles from the Texas border.
My mother dropped a good one many years ago when we were driving in the country north from Perth W.A. at night.
On the Sunday, the Thames will come to life when a flotilla of up to 1000 boats carrying 20,000 people will make its way down the river for 24km from Hammersmith Bridge in the west to the West India Docks in the east.
You can sleep and arrive in the south in the early morning.
Fabulous medieval castles and evocative ruins dot hilltops elsewhere in the country, and the fantastic red-brick fortresses of the Teutonic Knights stand proudly in the north along the Vistula.
From Erfoud you can drive south to explore the Dades Gorges visiting Todra Gorge, one of the most dramatic sights in Morocco, before continuing to the town of Skoura or Ouarzazate and the UNESCO restored Kasbah of Ait Ben Haddou a traditional Moroccan village that once served as a major stop for camel caravans carrying salt south across the Sahara and returning with ivory and gold.
Electronic gear takes up seven floors of this high-rise next to Gangbyeon station.
This four-person stream-fed waterhole is right beside the walking track.
Drygalski Fiord sits at the southern tip of South Georgia Island, a long finger of water pushing deep into the snow-capped ranges.
The Crater Highlands, north of Ngorongoro Crater and west of the Rift Valley in Northern Tanzania.
It has a restaurant, bar, lounge and terrace together in an open-plan space with white limestone walls and timber floors.
The Wave, Arizona This famous sandstone rock formation near the Arizona-Utah border was a sandy desert 200 million years ago.
The harbour destination calls itself North America's oldest city with its roots going back to 1620.
Marked hiking paths criss-cross the country, taking you through dense forest, along broad rivers and through mountain passes.
Picture: Noel Kessel Source: The Daily Telegraph Lady Gaga outside Park Hyatt hotel
It currently flies to Europe, Africa and North America.
BOOK a three night stay at Peppers Bluewater Resort near Lake Tekapo on New Zealand's south island and pay for only two.
In many ways, Wales is just what you picture it to be: rolling moorlands, glaciated mountain areas, mellifluous male-voice choirs, tongue-twisting place names, Rugby Union, 'Bread of...
An awe-inspiring canyon with marble-walled canyons, lush vegetation and cliffs so giant they block out the sky, Taroko covers 120,000 hectares with mountain peaks rising to 3700m.
A UN force headed by US general MacArthur quickly cut off the northern force's supply lines and recaptured Seoul.
This 4 1/2-star Fleurieu Peninsula resort is on the edge of the Tony Cashmore-designed McCracken Golf Course.
Model Miranda Kerr gets a takeaway coffee after lunch at Kawa Cafe on Crown Street, Surry Hills in Sydney.
You'll trek through waterfall-drenched forests en route to Lake Alabaster and Lake McKerrow, ending at the wild Tasman Sea coast at Martins Bay.
The environment of this massive park is filled with high mountain peaks and the Liwu River, which cuts through the centre of the gorge, forging many deep valleys, ravines and waterfalls in its course.
Racegoers walk past a large Union Flag as arrive on Derby Day, the second day of the Epsom Derby horse racing festival, at Epsom in Surrey, southern England, on June 2, 2012 the first official day of Britain's Queen Elizabeth II's Diamond Jubilee celebrations.
View of downtown Seoul and ancient fortress wall that surrounds parts of city Source: Martin Robinson
BRIAN Johnston does a bar crawl taking in champagne bars, noisy beer halls, funky gay dance spots and retro joints.
A big Australian sky watches over Sydney Botanical gardens Source: Tony Burns
Colombo is the international gateway for direct flights from Europe, Asia, Australia and the Middle East.
Ascending through the mists of New Zealand's tallest waterfall - The Sutherland Falls - The Milford Track takes you through alpine forests, across swing bridges and up a mountain pass.
Towering canyons carve a path through thundering falls, glassy lakes and alpine scrub - while the sheer scale of its mountain surround leaves you gasping.
Several operators, mostly off Gansbaai, a two-hour drive from Cape Town, lower divers into the ocean in a steel cage.
From there it sweeps through Augrabies Gorge, an incredible 220m-deep, 18km-long Grand Canyon-esque ravine.
A local police officer walks past collapsed buildings in Cavezzo, Italy.
This delightful resort is located at the foot of the iconic Eiger Mountain in the Swiss Alps.
Still within the park, I board a bus to Bitahai Lake, which is part of the Three Parallel Rivers Scenic Area, a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Britain's Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh (R) arrive on Derby Day, the second day of the Epsom Derby horse racing festival, at Epsom in Surrey, southern England, on June 2, 2012 the first official day of Britain's Queen Elizabeth II's Diamond Jubilee celebrations.
Tourist barge on Singapore River, with Empress Place Building in background Source: Manfred Gottschalk
Outside you'll find glass fish made from recycled soju (Korean liquor) bottles, thousands of convex mirrors, a large glass coffee set floating on a mirror lake, a glass pyramid and multi-coloured glass flowers.
The routes include Melbourne to Sydney and return, Adelaide to Canberra and return, Adelaide to Hobart and return, Melbourne to Adelaide and return, Melbourne to Canberra and return, Melbourne to Hobart and return, and Melbourne to Launceston and return.
The largest single environment on Earth is the deep ocean Abyssal Plain, a muddy desert up to 300m deep that scientists now believe could house more species than all the other environments on Earth combined.
A trendy Nicole Richie makes a quick trip to dance school to drop off daughter Harlow for ballet lessons.
Reed Flute cave in China.
Miranda Kerr arrives at Sydney Airport this 3.2.09.
The new space will contain three new galleries, an Education and Research Tower and a street-facing caf.
Manu National Park is home to the greatest biodiversity of any protected area on earth, including the striking macaw.
Britain's Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, left, inspect the horses in the parade ring before the Derby race at Epsom Derby, Epsom, southern England on the first official day of the Queen's Diamond Jubilee celebrations.
Taking inspiration from St Tropez's famous Nikki Beach, this is the place to be seen in Morocco, North Africa.
Boat safari in Selous Game Reserve A highlight of a visit to the 48,000sq km Selous Game Reserve in the heart of southern Tanzania is floating along the Rufiji River on a boat safari.
In the surrounding region, Camden's heritage walking trail leads around many colonial-era buildings, and Cobbity village offers a lovely slice of rural history.
This snap was taken through an x-ray film in Murrumba Downs, Queensland.
Egypt's ex-President Hosni Mubarak lays on a gurney inside a barred cage in the police academy courthouse in Cairo, Egypt.
Another transport option - Venice's magic Grand Canal is the main thoroughfare in the City of Bridges.
In general, spring and autumn are the best times to visit, combining pretty good weather with glorious countryside, but avoiding the crowds, clogged roads and accommodation rush of midsummer.
Brisbane-born executive chef Andrew McKee, who has worked in China, Japan and Hong Kong, heads the hotel kitchen.
The Nu River is Asia's last free-flowing international river and home to 7000 species of plants and 80 rare or endangered animals and fish
TAHITI Sofitel Tahiti Resort This recently refurbished luxury hotel property is located on the west coast of Tahiti, on a beach surrounded by tropical gardens.
Along the way, the ferns and palms part at lookouts high above the sounds, affording walkers magnificent views of bays, inlets, coves and even sub-alpine peaks.
The dazzling Geopark sites include Hallasan, Korea's highest mountain, the Manjanggul Lava Tubes, Jusangjeolli sea cliffs, Cheonjiyeon waterfall and Seongsan Ilchulbong, a 182m-high volcanic tuff cone rising dramatically out of the sea.
Sexy Grey's Anatomy star Eric Dane picks up a little something in Beverly Hills.
Add dozens of eclectic museums, folk villages, theme parks, a racecourse, casinos, golf courses and luxury resort hotels and you begin to get the picture.
More people have walked on the surface of the Moon than have descended to the deepest ocean trench,' said Exhibition Project Officer Em Blamey.
The 19-day French cruise also includes a seven-night coach tour to the medieval city of Carcassonne and the famous Loire Valley.
The front of the yacht will include a beach club with a 14m long swimming pool, cocktail bar and a lounge area spanning two levels.
At Bentota Beach, 60km south of Colombo, grand arcs of beach sweep north and south from a rocky promontory.
But don't despair: you can devise your own self-drive program by visiting the various farm gates open to the public which include Hillside Orchard (apples, pears, berries and stone fruit), Norland Orchard (black figs), Thornbrook Orchard (black Muscat grapes, apples and stone fruit), Huntley Berry Farm, Mastronardi Fruit & Vegetable Farm, and Borrodell on the Mount (heritage apples, cherries, wines - and a sublime view from their Sisters Rock restaurant).
Pontcysyllte Aqueduct, the world's highest and longest cast-iron aqueduct, carries a barge across the River Dee / Margaret Thurton Source: Image supplied Conwy Castle / Mike Smith
MARTIN Club Orient Resort Pristine white beaches and uninhabited nearby islands often leave guests feeling uninhibited at Club Orient in St. Martin.
Aerial view of Johannesburg from Carlton Centre, Africa's tallest building Source: Richard I'Anson
First built by Bawa in the 1970s, this 15-room resort boasts elegant interiors, a palm-shaded pool and lawns that lead down to the sea.
It's probably a good opportunity to head off to the Korean Folk Village (near Suwon) or the Seoul Nori Madang to view the special performances of traditional dances or wedding services.
Picture: Mark Thiessen / National Geographic Source: Supplied The Mariana Trench is located in the western Pacific east of the Philippines and some 200 kilometres east of the Mariana Islands.
EVERY year, about half a million tourists head north out of Cairns towards a 1200sq km block of tropical rainforest with a big name, perhaps a 200 million-year history and a biological diversity and complexity unequalled anywhere in Australia.
Stone forest, China The Stone Forest is a set of karst formations located in Shilin Yi Autonomous County in China.
Dusty hills of rose, violet and orange roll on for ever, punctuated by the occasional luminous turquoise-coloured lake.
There are pavilions and walking trails and even boat rental shops along the shores, but they are mostly of wood-and-stone construction and blend in nicely with the environment.
Hikers walk over the newly opened Trift bridge over the Trift Lake near the Trift Glacier in the Susten rock mass, central Switzerland.
Good surf beaches include Bondi and Tamarama on the south shore and Narrabeen, North Avalon and Palm Beach on the north shore.
The Dome Terrace Sky Bar at Mumbai's Intercontinental Marine Drive hotel is the perfect location for a balmy night overlooking the Arabian Sea.
When James Cameron descended 10.9km to the bottom of Challenger Deep in the Mariana Trench earlier this year, he became only the third person in history to see the deepest point on Earth.
Giant camphor and oak trees throw circles of shade under a blue sky.
The tallest waterfall in the country, this 580m body of water drops into Lake Quill and is fed by several glaciers.
The Mariana Trench is located in the western Pacific ocean.
THE opening of two new galleries at the International Cricket Hall of Fame make Bowral the place to be for cricket enthusiasts, says Brian Johnston
While large swathes are flat, the southern border is lined with low mountains that invite days of solitude.
Mt Madeline reflected on Lake Alabaster on the Hollyford Track.
Humble corrugated-iron shops sit proudly beside ornate municipal buildings.
The 15-night Tiger Trail takes in Badhavgarh and Kanha national parks.
Svartifoss (Black Falls), Iceland Svartifoss is a waterfall in Skaftafell National Park in Iceland surrounded by dark lava basalt columns.
Each villa, hidden behind stone walls, is an oasis.
This small but efficient town was a bustling exit port for slate from mountain-ringed Blaenau Ffestiniog, the town that is said to have 'roofed Wales and the world'.
That's when you land a bush retreat a stone's throw from a capital city, much like beautiful Crystal Brook Tourist Park in the outer eastern suburbs of Melbourne.
The chase and kill at the waterhole is a highlight of a memorable stay at Jaci's Safari Lodge, a five-star resort amid this untamed 75,000ha reserve on the edge of the Kalahari, adjoining the South Africa-Botswana border.
Hardest hit will be flights to Europe and Asia, chief executive Richard Anderson and president Edward Bastian told 70,000 employees.
the best way to enjoy Koh Samui's lush forests, mountains and gorgeous viewpoints is by car Source: No Source tourists ride elephant/supplied
Renaissance art coming to Canberra
It includes accommodation in a twin room at the City Hotel London near the Aldgate East tube station, four stops from the main Olympic tube station at Stratford.
Sokha's neighbour, Occheuteal Beach, comes a close second with its long stretch of white sand lined with pine trees.
Any vista of Europe is bettered by a stroll around Melbourne's suburbs; no glorious sunny day in Rome can top the non-stop blast of Adelaide sunshine.
Overlooking rippling paddy fields, this colonial manor house has five sleek suites spread across Old and New Wings, with a sapphire-blue pool between the two.
Miranda Kerr, the face of David Jones, outside Melbourne Town Hall.
Madeleine was left alone with her younger twin siblings in a holiday apartment at the coastal resort while her parents dined just over 100 yards (91m) away.
One respondent described the experience as a: 'Spectacular approach over beautiful islands, soft landing on the beach of white shells, taxiing up to the tiny terminal and then realising the whole island breathes to the rhythm of the tide.
The main station is the express bus terminal, on the southern side of the Han River.
But there's plenty else that is good about the hotel, starting with its position on a hill with a swimming pool looking out to mountains.
Most of Tibet is a high-altitude desert plateau over 4000m (13,123ft) and many passes exceed 5000m (16,404ft).
Take a boat safari down the Rufiji River in Selous Game Reserve, past snoozing crocodiles and elephants cavorting on the riverbank.
What's less well known is that Europe's high-speed rail network extends north into Germany and south into Spain and Italy.
Mountain peaks puncture a sea of clouds, slick black volcanic rock wraps the coastlines, and waterfalls shroud themselves in mist.
Gaga arrives in Sydney and meets the fans outside Park Hyatt Hotel before night out
The domestic post office occupies a full city block facing Hoan Kiem Lake.
The tiny region is famous for its lemon trees, with an abundance of the bright yellow citrus lining the hillside in groves.
Taiwan's spine is a ridge of steep mountains, falling away to a rocky coastline on the east and a narrow, fertile plain (where 90% of the population lives) on the west.
SCREAM Heide Park Soltau, Germany Halfway along the Hamburg-Hannover Autobahn you'll find the world's tallest drop tower, Scream.
Or taking the wrong trail on a mountain walk in the Cook Islands and ending up balancing on an electricity cable on the edge of a ridge.
On July 20, the 296-guest Silver Wind will embark on an 18-day journey from Istanbul, Turkey to Venice, Italy, taking in ports in Turkey, Greece, Lebanon and Cyprus.
Wildlife galore, a snow-covered peak, fantastic beaches and Swahili ruins pale beside Tanzania's most fascinating resource its people.
A man pushes his scooter on a suspension bridge as he crosses over the Nu River, also known as the Salween River, some 60km south to Gongshan southwest China's Yunnan province.
Price includes boat transfer to Anzac Cove for the dawn service, 4-star accommodation in the heart of Istanbul's Old Town, five nights' accommodation in Gallipoli, a sight-seeing tour of Istanbul and a half-day tour of ancient Troy.
UNITED STATES Living Waters Spa, Desert Hot Springs, California Between the hot mineral water pools and the luxurious accommodations, Living Waters Spa is the perfect place for total au naturel relaxation in the California sunshine.
On September 6, the 382-guest Silver Shadow will depart Vancouver for a 27-day voyage crossing the Bering Strait, cruising the Inside Passage and visiting ports in Alaska, Russia, Japan, South Korea and China.
A University of Queensland study, Project Manta, has identified more than 450 of the majestic creatures living around the isolated coral quay.
This southern town of higgledy-piggledy houses tumbling down a steep hillside is home to the Madonna Vasa Vasa a re-enactment of the sorrow and the joy of the Christian story as a huge piece of public theatre.
He work in a remote kiosk at London Zoo.
On a clear day you can see the Clinton Valley rolled out behind and to the north lies Milford Sound, eclipsed by sky-scraping mountain peaks.
A rock climber reaches for a hold on north face of Great Sail Peak, before getting ready to pitch his tent on the cliff face.
Over time, this dried up, leaving the remaining salt desert and islands.
George Clooney and girlfriend Stacey Keibler take a boat ride to Lake Como to visit Clooney's famous Italian holiday house.
Its turquoise waters and sun-bleached, sandy bays are lined with multiple...
With the famous Mont Blanc in its backyard, Chamonix Valley in the French Alps is a popular snow skiing resort in France.
The 8km (5mi) Manly Scenic Walkway follows the harbour from the north shore beachside suburb to Spit Bridge on Middle Harbour.
If you still have more energy to burn, head to Green Mango.
From Sydney to Melbourne in three hours on 400km/h Australian High Speed Vehicle
The campaign will be run in conjunction with Etihad Airways with Premier Nathan Rees signing the deal on Monday, the first day of his trade mission to the Middle East.
Snorkelling and scuba put Santo on the radar, with Million Dollar Point and the Coolidge wreck two of the unique sites near the coral reefs, but now visitors can also tour World War II positions, kayak to a blue hole, go fishing, hike into the mountains, explore the wild west coast by boat, enjoy a spa treatment, or 4WD to the black beach at Big Bay.
The Polar Bear Habitat, in the remote town of Cochrane in Ontario, is home to rescued bears.
Cameron is the first person to make a solo dive to the Pacific Ocean valley known as the Challenger Deep, southwest of Guam.
Spectacular volcanic scenery, waterfalls, mountains, forests, caves, superb beaches and milder weather have made Jeju a favoured destination for Korean honeymooners and tourists from China and Japan.
this will avert the need to flood light sports matches at night time, or to brace against climactic conditions, as you can always fly to where it is warm and dry.
I'm not just referring to the stress-busting environment of the Marlborough Sounds, a wondrous maze of drowned river valleys right at the top tip of the South Island, which the track traverses.
On the third level, it has views towards The Rocks, but it is peak cruise ship season and there is a ship blocking the view to Circular Quay.
They've become renowned around the world, especially in Europe and North America.
This German speaking village in Switzerland boasts Europe's highest cable car which takes visitors to the summit of the Gornergratbahn to see the Matter Valley below.
Rolling moorlands stretch from Denbigh in the north to the Glamorgan valleys in the south, ending on the west coast in spectacular cliffs.
IT'S one of Australia's most scenic and best-known grape growing regions, with more than 100 wineries to explore.
Surrounded by sea on three sides, Wales' border with England (to the east) still runs roughly along Offa's Dyke, the giant defensive earthwork constructed by an 8th century king.
Security officers made the discovery in the Cairns airport's holding bay about 6am on Monday when the boy and his 11-year-old brother prepared to board a flight to Weipa, where their father lives.
Visitors either enter in the south at Ho Chi Minh City (it was Saigon) and slowly make their way north to the capital Hanoi, or vice versa.
A Soviet Union theme park, located outside the Lithuanian capital Vilnius in an old bunker, offers tourists first-hand experience of KGB interrogation methods.
Fast train services run to Cardiff from London (Paddington), Bristol, Birmingham, York and Newcastle.
Harbour beaches at Camp Cove, Nielsen Park, Balmoral and Chinaman's Beach are picturesque but waveless.
ANCIENT forests, distant glaciers, wildlife and turquoise lakes - this New Zealand South Island track is great for those new to walking trips.
Currently in the design stage, the super-ship will feature smaller versions of the state's famous landmarks such as the Monte Carlo Casino and racetrack, as well as swimming pools, tennis courts, a cinema, a go kart track and a Hotel de Paris.
The road meanders through green valleys and mountain passes where mist drifts among the pine trees.
The United Nations has confirmed the deaths of 5395 people in Thailand, with official estimates, including the missing, putting the toll at 8212 dead after a giant wave and three further waves hit Thailand's southern coastline about breakfast time on that Boxing Day morning.
Set in the Lhasa Valley, this small city of 250,000 inhabitants is ringed by snow-capped mountains rising to heights of 5500 metres, and is home to a great diversity of cultures.
It's the world's highest and longest cast-iron aqueduct and the narrow canal boats fill it from edge to edge as they glide at a leisurely pace, 39m above the river.
The resort overlooks the Beqa Lagoon, which provides a stunning backdrop to the restaurants, bars and 18-hole golf course located nearby.
Horses tow canal boats along Llangollen Canal, an enterprise developed by a sea captain who was forced to retire after falling blind drunk from the bridge of his ship.
The Sydney-Brisbane route - the nation's second busiest - was down by 5.3 per cent, Brisbane-Melbourne (third busiest) dropped by 6.8 per cent, Sydney-Gold Coast fell by 10.7 per cent and Sydney-Cairns lost 21.7 per cent.
a duck herder shepherds his flockdown a Vietnamese waterway Source: Image supplied Opera House, Hanoi / Gates
After spending a few days touring the pyramids, museums and ruins of Cairo, we travelled to Luxor, home of the pharaonic resting place, the Valley of the Kings, and the Karnak Temple.
Built to host the 1999 Rugby World Cup, the Millennium Stadium sits like a lost space ship that has crash-landed in the city centre.
Priced from $395 per person, this deal includes a wine tasting experience at a Yarra Valley winery after your jump.
Continue driving north until you pass Coral Cove Chalet and a small lane on the left appears bearing the sign 'Sandalwood Villas'.
The Sofitel Plaza towers over the surrounding area, so when we discover the pool area our jaws drop at the view.
The tallest of three 55-storey towers is nearly 200m high, and inside there are many restaurants and a casino.
The British capital tops the list in a cost comparison of an evening out for two people in key tourist cities around the world.
SNAKE heads, pig toes and dried catfish are local delicacies during an immersive trip which takes in caves, the Mekong river and sacred sites.
A drive along some of its long, straight, inland roads such as that from Modica to the hilltop town of Enna passes huge tracts of unpopulated land, great wheat fields and wild, empty landscapes.
A new low-cost airline Scoot, a subsidiary of Singapore Airlines, will begin flying between Singapore and Sydney next year.
These included new Sydney-Brisbane and Sydney-Gold Coast services.
An ancestral manor, the Kandy House, sits among gardens of palms and fig trees slung with hammocks and fairy lights.
Robert Pattinson is back in Toronto.
After breakfast, one of our lodge hosts leads a rapid march (9.8km return in three hours) up to boulder-strewn Falls River, to feed Ella the eel leftover pork.
I think it's safe to say when you have a pang to be on a crowded X73 heading into the Eastern Distributor then you know you're suffering from homesickness.
Burano, Italy is an island about 7km from Venice.
Add to this theme-park Tibet: plaster cranes and brass yaks stand at the Beijing Street roundabout.
Opera Kitchen Opera Kitchen, which is set on the lower concourse level of Sydney's iconic Opera House, boasts a magnificent view across Circular Quay to the Sydney Harbour Bridge and a list of delicious dishes created by some of the city's favourite food producers.
This 17 night voyage stretches from Honolulu to Sydney with stops in Tahiti (pictured), Moorea and Bora Bora.
JAMES BOND BUNGEE Lake Locarno, Switzerland Head to the Swiss and Italian border around Lake Locarno to re-enact a famous scene from a Bond movie: Goldeneye.
That evening's pink-and-orange sunset finds us back on Meadowbank's veranda eating local mussels and drinking fine New Zealand wine.
Keith Urban arrives at Sydney international airport.
Then hit the desert highway past the Hoover Dam to reach Historic Route 66.
The mountains of Banff National Park dwarf the cosy looking lodge at Lake Louise.
Westfield Stratford City shopping centre and the sprawling Olympic games site in London, England.
Nepali porters carry baskets with goods while crossing a bridge on the mountain river near the Himalayan village of Jorsale.
CAMBODIA Bunwin Boutique Hotel Located in the heart of Siem Reap, this four star hotel is next to the village and restaurant district, as well as the famed night market.
The week-long cruise aboard MSC Orchestra begins in Naples and calls on Livorno, Villefranche, Valencia, Ibiza, Tunis and Catania before returning to Naples.
BEIJING Zhao Long CBD Hotel This four star hotel is located in the centre of the CBD and features an indoor swimming pool as well as a Turkish style steam bath and Finnish style bath.
mourners lay wreaths at the entrance to Australia Zoo in Beerwah as the world reacted to the death of the Crocodile Hunter Steve Irwin / Reuters
It was another scary sideways landing, this time at Zurich airport in Switzerland.
When Europeans arrived on mainland Australia, the continent's major land predators consisted of the Aborigines, non-indigenous dingoes (from South-East Asia) and the perentie (monitor).
The best shore dives in Sydney are the Gordons Bay Underwater Nature Trail, north of Coogee; Shark Point, Clovelly; and Ship Rock, Cronulla.
Richat Structure, Mauritania A prominent circular feature in the Sahara desert, the Richat Structure stretches almost 50km-wide and can be seen from space.
The international airport at Cardiff is used for holiday charter flights, although there are also scheduled flights to Alicante, Amsterdam, Belfast, Brussels, Canada, the Channel Islands, Cork, Geneva, Dublin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Malaga, Milan, Munich, Newcastle, Palma, Paris, Plymouth, Prague and Toulouse.
The campaign will be run in conjunction with Etihad Airways with Premier Nathan Rees signing the deal on Monday, the first day of his trade mission to the Middle East.
Sue Ridley waits on Westminster Bridge for the Royal Barge to pass the House of Commons and the Big Ben clocktower during the Thames Diamond Jubilee River Pageant in London, Sunday, June 3, 2012.
Black cows wander freely around cobblestone lanes and Tibetan village women wearing maroon tunics with blue aprons and bright pink, orange or blue head coverings are colourful against the mud brick walls.
Verne picks up the technique in no time and we return to camp for a final gear check and to pack enough food for three days' climbing.
Virgin Group chairman Sir Richard Branson arrives at Cockatoo Island / AAP
This forces planes to fly very low over the heads of tourists on Maho beach while approaching the runway.
Rock and roll lives, baby, at this underground (literally) club across from Taipei Main Station.
Argyll and Bute council in northeast Scotland had banned tech savvy elementary school student Martha Payne from posting on her 'Never Seconds' blog because her school meal photographs had sparked negative media attention, The (London) Daily Telegraph reported.
The Cultural Walk in the Living Desert, lush with growth after recent rains, takes about 1 1/2 hours, past a quartz quarry, prospector's mine, Aboriginal story poles and scenic lookout.
Night view from Namsan Park, a smallish mountain right in the middle of Seoul Source: Martin Moos
Bordering Farm Cove, east of the Sydney Opera House, the enchanting gardens were established in 1816 and feature plant life from the South Pacific and around the world.
Just across the border in England are the international airports at Birmingham, Bristol and Manchester, which offer easy access to Wales.
Gone are the days when Singapore was just the place to change planes as you headed to Europe, with the Lion City becoming a great place to spend anything from a few days to a whole holiday this year.
A defiantly sulky China demanded that any country entering Taiwan to offer earthquake relief get permission from the Chinese government first: a demand that was met with less-than-hearty agreement from humanitarian organisations and other countries around the world.
saved from a culling program in Zimbabwe, the elephant Michael now spends his days taking nature-hungry tourists into the South African bush / supplied Source: No Source Pilanesberg Elephant-Back Safaris
The tour explores the coastline of England, Scotland and Wales with excursions in Zodiacs to places off the tourist trail, and gardens including 16th-century Crathes Castle in Scotland and the Bodnant Garden in Wales.
While Yalong Bay, near Sanya on Hainan's southern tip, may lack Polynesia's heaving surf and swaying skirts, its broad white beaches are better than many in Hawaii.
CANBERRA Airport unveils designs for new high-speed rail terminal linking to a Sydney train line no-one has promised to build.
It's 18.7km from here to Torrent Bay Lodge and somewhere along that roller-coaster day-three walk over saddles and down into greenstone-smooth bays, the temperature peaks at 30C.
Sarah Jessica Parker leaves her house in some very fashion-forward attire.
The refuge is remote but planes can be chartered from arctic villages such as Fort Yukon, Deadhorse and Katovik.
Lunch at Charlotte's at the Grand or Thom, Dick & Harry's in Argent St before driving to the Living Desert Flora & Fauna Sanctuary and Sculpture Walk, about 9km from town.
Australia also saw more tourists from Korea, India and Italy.
Visiting: The Hills are bordered by Laurel Canyon Boulevard to the west, Vermont Avenue to the east, Mulholland Drive to the north, and Sunset Boulevard to the south.
In just three days at Madikwe, only three hours' drive from South Africa's biggest city, Johannesburg, we see many of these creatures and more.
Despite the chic resorts and bizarre theme parks, outside the main tourist towns Jeju is a place of haunting natural beauty.
Fan of the British royal family Tony Hutt sits in his spot on the Mall leading to Buckingham Palace in central London on June 1, 2012 where he will camp out waiting for the Diamond Jubilee celebrations to begin.
Independent hikers can book into four park huts and 19 camping areas along the track but our destination is very different.
It's the end of the monsoon cycle, making temperatures ideal for visiting temple ruins near Siem Reap and Sihanoukville beaches
This is the Queen Mary 2's second visit to Sydney within a month and the first time it has docked at Circular Quay's Overseas Passenger Terminal after a $5 million upgrade to its mooring.
Perched on a hill overlooking the Chaweng Lake and like its sister in Bangkok, Q Bar is the ultimate in chic.
One of the largest urban malls in Europe, the 'official shopping centre of London 2012' houses a John Lewis department store, Jamie Oliver restaurant, cinema and a casino.
In opening the first joint session of the ATCM and the Arctic Council on April 6, Clinton said Washington would work with other countries surrounding the region 'to strengthen peace and security and support economic development and protect the environment'.
The Lake Louise Resort is lucky enough to sit in the middle of Banff National Park with its spectacular scenery and clear blue lake.
This photo shows Rossy landing in Britain near Dover after crossing the English Channel.
Four young women wearing crowns pose on Tower Bridge during the Diamond Jubilee river Pageant on the River Thames in London on June 3, 2012, as Britain celebrates the Queen's Diamond Jubilee River Pageant.
The canopy walkway at Kakum National Park Rain Forest is the only round tour over a hanging bridge in the forest canopy level in all of Africa
Cruise Express's 19-day Provence, Burgundy and Romantic Chateaux tour, departing Australia on May 5, features a seven-night cruise on the Rhone River aboard the deluxe river vessel Avalon Scenery, through the winery-filled Burgundy and Provence regions of southern France.
This elusive creature is best seen at the Giant Panda Breeding Research Base, 10km north of the Sichuan city of Chengdu.
SNAKE heads, pig toes and dried catfish are local delicacies during an immersive trip which takes in caves, the Mekong river and sacred sites.
Hugh Jackman takes a dip at Sydney's Bondi Beach.
Just a short walk away are major shopping complexes, offices, banks, embassies, entertainment centers and restaurants.
There are plenty of wildlife parks in southern and east Africa but South Africa's Kruger National Park is an old favourite.
Clinging to a rocky outcrop that is the highest point around Lhasa, the 117m high building includes the eastern White Palace, once the Dalai Lama's living quarters, and the central Red Palace that contains the lamas' assembly hall and over 10,000 shrines.
Nicole Richie and Joel Madden battle the crowds at Sydney's Taronga Zoo.
Sphinx and the Great pyramid in Egypt.
On the third day we head for the hills to explore the Boboli Gardens, a charming landscaped garden just south of the River Arno.
Carney's next appearance will be for a plea and case management hearing at Lewes Crown Court, in southeast England, on May 22.
Summer is not a good time for travel to the outer islands as they are crowded with tourists, and flights and hotels are difficult to secure.
The Marlborough Sounds, one of the sunniest parts of New Zealand, is a massive scattered jigsaw of bays, coves and islands.
One of the safest cities in Southeast Asia, home to 10 million people Source: Martin Moos
There are some 20 marked walking paths called Olle Trails (three to six-hour walks) that will lead you past tangerine orchards, golden canola fields, neighbourhood backyards and from the waterfalls, mountain forests and national parks to drop-dead gorgeous seaside cliffs and beaches that have earned Jeju its latest gong.
For more, head east to the beautiful landscapes that lie around Stellenbosch, named after the wine-loving governor Van der Stel.
The prototype space shuttle that arrived in New York City by air earlier this spring is on the move again, this time by sea, to it's final resting place at the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum on the west side of Manhattan.
Interstate and regional bus travellers arrive at Sydney Coach Terminal outside Central Station.
From Hidden Falls, the tramp heads through podocarp forest highlighted by mosses and ferns in bold hues.
Avatar and Titanic director James Cameron reaches ocean's deepest point on record-breaking trip
Bicycles, buses and motor scooters, all together, in downtown Ho Chi Minh City Source: Oliver Strewe
The marathon will also begin and end at the Mall and will take in many other London sights on its 12km course.
Churches above, caves and crypts below, at the Caves Monastery, Kyiv Source: Peter Thornton
We hop straight on a vaporetto (water bus) and sit in wide-eyed astonishment as we zig-zag our way down this fairytale waterway.
Taipei has an extensive city and regional bus service, based around four major bus terminals (the city government is trying to get them all into one terminal, which makes it a little confusing).
Popular boat dive sites are Wedding Cake Island, off Coogee; around the Sydney Heads; and off the Royal National Park.
Spotted lake, Canada This rather bizarre lake in British Colombia, Canada appears as if its surface is covered with large spots.
Big, yellow, recumbent Buddha, in cave at Mulkirigala Temple, near Tangalla Source: Anders Blomqvist
Built in 1955, the cable car to the summit held the title of the world's highest cable car for about two decades, and still holds the record of the highest vertical ascent cable car in the world
He holds court in his smoky jazz club nightly, often playing host to guest performers from around the world.
Perched on a headland at the southern end of a gorgeous beach, the Four Seasons Jimbaran Bay is one of Asia's finest resorts.
Its steep, unbroken walls soar 400m to 610m and provide the setting for an incredible natural drama as lions, elephants, buffaloes, ostriches and plains herbivores such as wildebeest, elands, zebras and reedbucks graze and stalk their way around the grasslands, swamps and acacia woodland on the crater floor.
From majestic views at the top of Table Mountain to a life-changing encounter with safari wildlife - South Africa has enough to satisfy the adventurer in us all.
A short distance along the trail, we reach the first of the kora's four prostration points.
Walk through the Crater Highlands guided by a spear-carrying, red-shawled Maasai warrior.
Nearby points of interest include Waterbom Park and Legian Beach, and the 3.5 star hotel offers a restaurant and a bar/lounge, golf course, outdoor pool and spa.
Nothing you will see on Animal Planet or National Geographic Channel prepares you for the sights, sounds, colours and smells of Africa close up.
The limestone caves house thousands of Buddha figures in various positions, reflecting the wonders and benefits of meditation, teaching, peace, rain and reclining.
A heritage spire shares the skyline with a modern communications tower.
Michael guides us into the bush in the late afternoon, when the subsiding sun softens the landscape and many animals are on the move, seeking food, water or a safe place to sleep.
A neon forest of advertising in the night-time streets Source: Bill Wassman
Processing a tourist-visa application typically takes four or five working days in countries in the West.
Built entirely of mud, salt crystals, basalt rocks, earth, and water on the northeastern shore of the Great Salt Lake near Rozel Point in Utah, it forms a 460m-long, 4.6m-wide counterclockwise coil jutting from the shore of the lake.
Captain Peter Probert took control of the first A380 to land on Australian soil.
Each January, fans and film stars descend on the frozen streets of Park City, Utah to witness the unveiling of the next big thing in independent cinema.
Given Sydneysiders' love of watersports, it should come as no surprise that there are more than 100 public swimming pools in Sydney.
Germany's oldest town Trier dates back to 16BC, when it was founded by the Romans, and still contains well-preserved ruins from the period.
But Phi Phi Leh is still well worth the visit, with its inviting, shallow blue-green waters washing the base of towering cliffs and lazily lapping on to its horseshoe-shaped white beach.
A cave near Yangshuo in China.
A cave near Guilan in China.
Fewer than 6000 remain, half of them more than 60 years old, and you can still meet them on the beaches and rock pools, working mainly on the south coast around Seongsan Beach.
A South Korean student uses a special glass to observe the transit of Venus at National Science Museum in Gwacheon, south of Seoul, South Korea.
Tom Hall MS 'PACK IT ALL IN' Never mind that Europe, the Middle East and Africa offer millennia of history, natural wonders and an encyclopaedia of people and cultures.
The 29-year-old man fell more than 90 metres down the cliff face at Seaton, Devon, and landed in bushes below.
Seal is pictured at the launch of the new Leica cameras at Foto Riesel in Kent Street in Sydney Picture: Charles Brewer
To get a handle on Broken Hill, you need to understand its mining heritage and the best place to start is the Albert Kersten Mining & Minerals Museum, or Geocentre.
Area Dialing Code: Thai area codes are dialled every time, whether you dial a number from inside or outside its locality.
the vineyards and valley from the road up the Franschhoek Pass in South Africa.
A reader picture of the Venus transit taken at 9.11am this morning from Mosman, Sydney.
It is home to a bowling alley, cinema and rooftop bar with views of the City including the famous 'gherkin' building.
The last time was from Brisbane to Sydney with Virgin.
The One World Trade Center building proudly towers over the New York skyline, commemorating the spot where the twin towers once stood.
Giac Lam Pagoda, Cholon, oldest and best preserved pagoda in Ho Chi Minh City Source: John Elk III
The deep ocean makes up over 95% of the 'living space' on Earth yet less than 10% of it has been explored, leaving our imaginations to fill in the blanks,' she said.
Not only are the ragged peaks and high cliffs a draw card to the Canadian Rockies, the quaint town below is like something from a fairy tale - complete with castle.
In June, Rio will host the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development.
The One World Trade Center building proudly towers over the New York skyline, commemorating the spot where the twin towers once stood.
The Katyn monument is seen in Exchange Place as construction continues on One World Trade Center after workers moved a steel column into place to make it New York City's tallest building.
Among the best nude beaches is Florida's Haulover Beach, Greece's Paradise Beach and Canada's Wreck beach.
Five minutes after the train left Giza, our porter stuck his head in the doorway with a huge smile on his face.
PANAMA Garden of Eden Resort, Isla Solarte Tucked away on Panama's Caribbean coast, this pristine island has a laid-back atmosphere.
SOMETIMES caravanners, campers or cabin hunters strike it lucky with the best of both worlds in a holiday park.
Visiting: The theatre is in the heart of Hollywood on the northwest corner of Hollywood Boulevard and Highland Avenue.
Milson's Point waterfront to Sydney Opera House Source: Andrew Watson
Apartments overlooking a lazy day on Bondi beach Source: Tony Burns
Settled next to the Mekong River, the city is famous for it's many Buddhist temples, monasteries and monks.
Long-distance coaches are the cheapest method of travel, with several services running between English and Welsh cities.
British Airways flies from Sydney to London.
Fly with Singapore Airlines to Hong Kong and receive accommodation in a superior city view room at the 4-star Harbour Plaza North Point, a late 4pm check out (subject to availability) and bonus high tea for two people per stay.
In the UK, the eurozone crisis was seen as one factor pushing up central London house price, according to Knight Frank, a real estate agency dealing in high-end property.
I saw John Knox House, thought to be the city's oldest dwelling; Canongate Church, which became the place to pray when the burgh grew out of Holyrood Abbey; and the cemetery where Robert Burns's words mark a fellow poet's gravestone.
Harbourlink Monorail crossing old Pyrmont Bridge, Darling Harbour Source: Ross Barnett
Koala Hospital Ambulance used to transport sick and injured koalas in the Port Macquarie area.
The walker's starting point is Picton, the port town of 5000 where the Interislander ferry between the North and South islands embarks and disembarks several times a day, across Cook Strait.
But the excursion is special, through the shallow waters and up to caves, villages and islands that our ship can't reach.
While doing so she expects to find every town to be celebrating a festival, every field and valley to be in bloom, and the best room in town reserved just for her.
Meadowbank Homestead is a 1990s reconstruction of the two-storey home that Wilson family ancestor William Hadfield built on Awaroa Inlet's shore in 1884.
Buddhist monks, one quite cheerful, at Sera Monastery, near Lhasa Source: Richard I'Anson
The main volcano, Hallasan, rises 1,950m above sea level and is surrounded by 360 satellite volcanoes.
A GOURMET escape to Orange in NSW's central west and Sheridan Rogers is feasting on local produce in a region that's fast becoming famous.
This is the place to experience the rhythm of rural life and timeless landscapes of dazzling rice paddies and swaying sugar palms.
If you came to Poland to see castles, this is what you came to see; catch it just before dusk when the sunlight colours the bricks kiln-crimson.
In winter, snow and ice can make the higher roads treacherous, or close them altogether.
Wales has two major mountain areas: the Black Mountains and Brecon Beacons in the south, and the mountains of Snowdonia in the northwest.
An alternative deal is to fly from Sydney to Rome for two nights' accommodation followed by a 27-night cruise to Singapore with return flight.
Passengers will glide quietly along the straight stretches and tunnels that cut through Japan's mountainous countryside, said operator East Japan Railway Co, which has heavily promoted the launch of the new service.
Hire a bike on Yeouido from a rental hut near the swimming pool in Hangang Park, or near the ferry boat terminal in Yeouido Park.
With its high elevation (about 860m), cool climate and rich volcanic soils, Orange has been one of Australia's most productive horticultural areas for well over a century producing apples and pears and a wide range of stone fruits (ironically the climate is too cool for oranges).
Traditional Welsh food is available at Blaenau Ffestiniog's Miners Arms but the highlight of this slate-mining town is the opportunity to go down into the Llechwedd Deep Mine, plus a stirring narration as you proceed from cavern to cavern.
The two towers are connected by a 'floating garden observatory' and there is also an underground replica of an early 20th century Osaka market.
The Kalahari doesn't have the same concentration of game as other parks so this is not the place to come to tick off the big five.
Around 20,000 people compete in the annual 14km (8.5mi) City to Surf Run in August.
Big Ben stands tall at The Palace of Westminster Source: Paul Kennedy
You've always been able to hop to the European mainland (and Ireland) by ferry, but the Eurostar high-speed passenger rail services make train travel to and from the continent a breeze.
NSW is launching an extensive tourism campaign in Britain and other parts of Europe aiming to lure tourists back to Sydney and other areas of the state.
The polygonal towers and colour-banded masonry were based on Constantinople's 5th-century walls, and set it apart from the other castles of North Wales.
Tourist maps of the wine routes make getting around simple, even if there are a dozen or so designated wine regions.
Tourists reach new heights at the Aiguille du Midi Mountain, Mont Blanc massif.
Stellenbosch is a rather charming university town with Georgian churches, tidy Dutch houses and lively student cafes.
A meandering driveway heads for kilometres through cattle-haunted hills and purple flowerbeds to the old manor house, which has a delightful English-style garden complete with lily pond and rose trellises.
There are plenty of hippos around Ngoitoktok Springs picnic site, and Lake Magadi attracts flocks of flamingos to its shallows in the rainy season.
Coalworks' three major assets include coking and thermal coal projects, Ferndale in the Hunter Valley, Vickery South in the Gunnedah Basin and Oakland North in NSW's south.
It also includes a seven-night coach tour to the medieval city of Carcassonne and the famous Loire Valley with stays in moated chateaux such as the Chateau d'Esclomont, Chateau Tortiniere and Chateau des Vigiers.
People walk on the Capilano Suspension Bridge in North Vancouver, which crosses the Capilano River
Palm trees and white sands at Unawatuna Beach, southwestern Sri Lanka Source: Greg Elms
The outdoor thatched-roof bale has a layabout couch and dining setting with views over a stone-floored plunge pool, a tropical garden and the beach below.
Whale Watching Sydney spokesman Will Ford said the number of whales passing Sydney was increasing every day.
Exhausted from the ascent, we fuel up and take in plenty of fluids before slogging back down to Camp One, which we strip our tents and other gear, before dropping right down to Base Camp and a huge celebration.
Visiting: The studio is at 706 Union Avenue, east of downtown Memphis at the intersection of Union and Marshall Streets.
Julia Stiles keeps a low profile while walking in SoHo.
Ho Chi Minh City's Tan Son Nhat International Airport hosts flights from many major international airports, as well as domestic flights from 11 centres.
A view along the Queen Charlotte Track, in the Marlborough Sounds, New Zealand.
Sydney Westfield Pitt St Sydney's newest shopping destination is open, with Westfield Sydney boasting a vast collection of shops everything from the top designers to high-street brands and a food court that's a bona fide culinary destination.
Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh on The Spirit of Chartwell along the Thames during the River Pageant of the Diamond Jubilee.
What was once a tiny fishing village is now the place to be seen on the Riviera.
The hotel is also connected to the River City Shopping Complex, a great place to find a bargain, and offers a complimentary river service to the nearby Taksin skytrain station on board a classic Thai boat which runs daily from 10am to 10pm.
Working my way south from NYU on Broadway and 8th, I embarked on a five-hour shopping trip which took in purchases at French Connection, Banana Republic, American Eagle Outfitters, The North Face and Transit, a top place for cheap Timberlands.
As dawn breaks across the Tibetan Plateau, the monotonous countryside outside slowly yields to lush grasslands, grazing yaks and nomadic herdsmen.
SUN STUDIO, MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE, USA The birthplace of rock and roll, the Memphis Recording Service, as it was known in the early '50s, was where blues and country music came together to produce what we know now as rock and roll.
The Seoul Jazz Academy, just off Daehangno has three different jazz groups playing every weekday and Sunday night until well past midnight.
The Skitube terminal has free long-term parking and is generally below the snowline so you should not have to carry chains.
Actress Lindsay Lohan arrives for a progress report hearing at the Airport Branch Courthouse in Los Angeles on October 19, 2011.
On return to Southampton on May 15, guests will join Queen Victoria for a 14-night Adriatic explorer cruise to Italy, Croatia, Greece and Spain, returning to Southampton on June 1 for the flight home to Australia.
While the place to be in the evening is the ground-floor L'Elysee bar, where piano music tinkles softly, during the day our sanctuary is the rooftop pool.
Touching down in the former royal capital 30 minutes later, we discover a temple-dotted, mountain-ringed retreat with a serene lake at its heart.
Central and South America are set to open up to Australian travellers this year thanks to Qantas, with the Flying Kangaroo already hopping into Dallas/Fort Worth in Texas and ready to deliver passengers into the Chilean city of Santiago from March.
The tall rocks jut out from the ground like stalagmites, resembling petrified trees and create the illusion of a forest made of stone.
Contestants Shane Crawford and Jesinta Campbell during a tourist photo booth challenge at Manly Beach in Sydney.
Up the hill and inside the Grand Hyatt Hotel is this classy nightclub with nine different zones, and a live rock band nightly except Sunday.
Do not go outside when they are raging, and avoid going to the mountains in the few days following as landslides and swollen rivers can wash out roads and trails.
The actual sphere where Cameron will sit aboard the Deepsea Challenger during his descent to the bottom of the Mariana Trench has an interior diameter of 43 inches and provides life support, communications and control of the submersible.
Rickshaws in front of New Delhi railway station.
The members of the Council of the Baltic Sea States sit under models of whales at the Ozeaneum sea museum as they attend the plenary session of the summit in Stralsund, Germany.
IT'S a wine trail with a difference as Brian Johnston found on South Africa's Western Cape as he headed to its gourmet capital of Franschhoek.
Constantia is only a first taste of what the Western Cape's vineyards have to offer.
Security staff at southern Ho Chi Minh City's Tan Son Nhat airport discovered the tiny corpse when checking the luggage of a man about to fly to the northern port city of Hai Phong, the official said, refusing to be named or to provide other details.
Just over the hills from Stellenbosch, Franschhoek produces mostly white wine.
Sunset on Baltic Sea beach in Swinoujscie at Uznam Island.
Stretching from North Queensland to remote Western Australia, Norforce relies heavily on the unique local knowledge and skills of its Indigenous soldiers.
Popocatepetl volcano, near Puebla, is 120 km east from Mexico City.
The key players in Australia's uranium industry acknowledge they face an uphill battle to win public support for the industry's expansion in Australia.
Share This 0 + Comment 2 Popocatepetl volcano, near Puebla, is 120 km east from Mexico City.
The pick-up truck was parked on a highway that goes around Torreon, a city of some 650,000 where two major highways heading north to the United States converge.
Prime Minister Julia Gillard has left South Korea following the international summit on nuclear terrorism.
World leaders are meeting in South Korea's capital, Seoul, to discuss international efforts to secure nuclear material.
But the move sparked an angry reaction from the office of President Moncef Marzouki, who was in southern Tunisia on Sunday for commemorations to mark the 70th anniversary of the foundation of the national army.
He initially managed to evade his trackers, moving south apparently in hopes of securing protection from guerrilla fronts operating in Cauca.
Border clashes between the two nations began in late March, culminating in the South's 10-day occupation of Sudan's main oil field in Heglig.
Cybermilitant Wael Ghonim in a tweet message said 'congratulations to Egypt, the criminal has left the palace', hailing Friday's announcement that president Hosni Mubarak has stepped down.
The chilling warning came as western powers dampened expectations of any early imposition of a no-fly zone over Libya, amid a clamour from western states for action to prevent Gaddafi's warplanes from attacking his own people.
Utility crews made slow progress in restoring electricity to millions of households amid a record-setting heatwave in the eastern US.
The Berlin Wall separated East and West Germany, let's hope this wall of barricades can separate Hong Kong from China forever,' one user wrote, underscoring a sense of growing discontent among Hong Kongers toward Beijing.
The conservation group says the Yushin Maru 3 has since left the French exclusive economic zone and is tailing the Bob Barker in Australian Antarctic waters.
Social workers and union members have been protesting in western Sydney over an income management trial.
The accident took place in the predawn hours near western San Marcos, with rescue crews and survivors pointing to break failure as its likely cause.
One of the northern New South Wales towns isolated by flood waters is Walgett, to which all major roads are cut.
Perhaps, at the end of Dominique Strauss-Kahn's interrogation, we will hear useful and interesting news about the behaviour of Socialist Party branches in the north,' said Sarkozy's campaign spokeswoman Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet.
The jets made several passes over the square, dropping lower every time.
Tribal clashes in western and southern Libya have left at least 15 people dead over the past 48 hours, the state news agency has reported.
A new report claims Australia is lagging behind its East Asian neighbours in school education.
The first, pre-dawn strike on Thursday killed five militants, hitting a house on the western outskirts of Jaar where they were staying and completely levelling the structure.
Calls to stop sending failed asylum seekers back to Afghanistan
Dr Sayed Khatab specialises in Middle Eastern politics at Monash University in Melbourne.
The Adonia, owned by P&O cruises, and the Princess Cruises vessel Star Princess were both blocked from entering Ushuaia in southern Argentina on Monday after both ships stopped at the Falklands on Saturday.
Victims, survivors, emergency service workers and community and political leaders have gathered in Gatton in south-east Queensland to mark the first anniversary of the region's deadly floods.
Let asylum seekers fly in: Palmer * Record asylum boat arrivals for June
The HMS York has also left Malta for Libyan shores.
These rains could cause life-threatening flash floods and mudslides in areas of steep terrain,' the US NHC center warned.
The country's marine reserves will cover 3.1 million square kilometres or a third of Australian waters including the Coral Sea and the southwest coast of Western Australia.
A second asylum-seeker boat has been intercepted on Friday near the Ashmore Islands, off Australia's northwest coast.
Home Affairs Minister Jason Clare said HMAS Glenelg, operating under the control of Border Protection Command, intercepted the boat east-northeast of Ashmore Islands on Friday.
It is bordered to the west by Tunisia and Algeria, to the east by Egypt and Sudan, to the south by Chad and Niger, and to the north by the Mediterranean Sea.
But he not mention the violence plaguing the country, which has left more than 50,000 dead since President Felipe Calderon deployed the military to crack down on drug cartels in late 2006.
The citizens set up self-styled checkpoints and barricades and used bricks and metal traffic barriers to block off side streets.
Sea Shepherd captain Paul Watson is facing extradition to Costa Rica.
Abby Dinham has this report on election activity in the Middle East and North Africa, post the Arab Spring.
Misrata would be the first major city in the west to fall to anti-government forces, which have mainly been concentrated in the east.
Professor Bob Bowker specialises in Middle East politics at the Australian National University in Canberra and is a former Australian Ambassador to Egypt and Jordan.
Australian authorities have intercepted two more asylum seeker boats and Border Protection Command will transfer the passengers to Christmas Island for security, health and identity checks.
While the proposed Coral Sea Marine Sanctuary is vast, and by far the largest of the protected areas, its fishing industry is small.
AusAid's health program director in Port Moresby, Geoff Clark, told Queensland correspondent Stefan Armbruster the sea ambulance will ferry people to the Western Province hospital in Daru.
Philip Luther, Amnesty's deputy director for the Middle East and North Africa, said: 'This appears to have been a sniper attack with security forces deliberately shooting to kill protesters from strategic vantage points.
Outside the high level of urbanisation on China's eastern seaboard, the country's inland and western provinces were still poor subsistence farming areas, and the government was committed to addressing living standard differences, he said.
Around 20 million people were eligible to vote, from the Amazon forest to the Pacific coast and remote areas of the Andes.
Jong-Un has overseen the dispatch of birthday gifts by ship or helicopter to children on remote islands in the Yellow Sea, state media said.
Cities, including Benghazi in the east, had fallen to demonstrators opposing Gaddafi's 41-year-old regime after military units deserted, said the Paris-based International Federation for Human Rights (IFHR).
Many countries currently face urbanisation of unprecedented pace and scale: for example China, India, and others across Asia, South America and Africa.
Less than a year later, many have travelled to South Sudan from Australia, and some have stayed.
On Saturday, more than 150 foreign nationals were flown to Malta on two British Royal Air Force C130 Hercules transport planes after being rescued from remote oil installations in the Libyan desert by special forces.
Summer was the main season for cultivation and replenishment of Mayan freshwater storage systems and there are no rivers in the Yucatan lowlands,' added Rohling.
South America | Google has replaced its typical Street View cars with camera equipped tricycles and boats to reach the remoter parts of Brazil's Amazon region.
Tuesday marks the one year anniversary since flood waters tore through the Lockyer Valley.
The four-member delegation has been held since Thursday in the western town after Ms Taylor was found carrying documents for Seif al-Islam that were considered a 'threat to national security'.
HMAS Armidale intercepted the boat northwest of Ashmore Island on Sunday.
Two asylum boats reach Australia
HMAS Maitland, operating under the control of Border Protection Command, intercepted a boat carrying 79 suspected asylum seekers and two crew north west of Christmas Island.
NSW Roads Minister Duncan Gay has welcomed federal Opposition Leader Tony Abbott's pledge of $1.5 billion for Sydney's M4 East extension.
After criticism about delayed rescue efforts, two British C130 Hercules swooped into the remote desert to evacuate 150 civilians stranded in the country's southern oilfields, Defence Minister Liam Fox said.
Former New Mexico governor Bill Richardson, who has maintained contacts with North Korea since his time as US ambassador to the United Nations, said that fellow Democrat Obama is 'playing it correctly by playing it cool.
Crime Commander Richard Bryson praised police who located the well-hidden fugitive, who is a former engineer in the Australian Defence Force.
Home Affairs Minister Jason Clare said the HMAS Maitland, under the control of Border Protection Command, stopped a 'suspected irregular entry vessel' northwest of Ashmore Islands on Friday night.
Children's charity Plan International says conflict in South Sudan's war-torn border region is contributing to a growing rate of child abductions.
Federal Opposition Leader Tony Abbott says a coalition government would try to maximise Australia's trade ties across the Asia-Pacific region through a plan to revive language teaching in schools.
About 9,000 people have been evacuated from Wagga Wagga with fears the flood levee, the city's last line of defence, will be breached by the Murrumbidgee River this evening.
Investors, fearful that Portugal, Ireland, Spain and Italy will follow Greece's path, would then pull their money out of those countries as well.
Australia's Antarctic research ship Aurora Australis will head to Commonwealth Bay in Antarctica for celebrations, marking the cenetenary of explorer Douglas Mawson's first expedition to the icy continent.
The massive Coral Sea marine protected area will generate environmental benefits at low cost.
Professor Martin Tsamenyi For service to maritime and fisheries law in the Asia-Pacific region, through the Australian National Centre for Ocean Resources and Security, and to legal education.
The oil fields, located off Brazil's southeast Atlantic coast beneath kilometers of ocean and bedrock, could contain more than 100 billion barrels of high-quality recoverable oil, according to official estimates.
Humanitarian organisations say renewed fighting between Sudan and South Sudan is making it difficult to relocate South Sudanese in the north back to their home.
The volcano, which rumbled to life on Saturday for the first time since 1960, is high in the Andes mountains 870 kilometers (540 miles) south of the Chilean capital Santiago, near the border with Argentina.
Mainland France remains at the second highest level, 'reinforced red', on its terror threat scale, with troops deployed around major tourist sites and transport hubs and security forces on high alert.
It would be undesirable to force fishers displaced by Coral Sea protection to transfer their effort further south.
It is bordered by Saudi Arabia to the north, Oman to the east, the Red Sea to the west and is separated from Djibouti and Eritrea by the Gulf of Aden to the south.
Last year the remote western Queensland town of 1200 people recorded 14 mainly youth suicides, more than 100 times the national average.
The former Australian Defence Force engineer was found by police heavily armed and hiding in bushland.
The thick ash billowing out of the remote volcano poses a danger to aircraft and the disruptions recall the widespread chaos caused in 2010 when an Icelandic volcano's eruption paralysed air traffic over Europe.
The four-member legal team for Muammar Gaddafi's son, Seif al-Islam, has been held since Thursday in the western town after Ms Taylor was found carrying documents for Seif that were considered a 'threat to national security'.
Federal and local police cordoned off the area and used airport signs to cover the food court windows.
Actually, I've lived and travelled extensively in Timor Leste, Indonesia, Europe, North America, Turkey and the Middle East.
Australia's Cocos Islands Administrator says it's not feasible to accommodate asylum-seekers on the Indian Ocean island territory in the long term.
Until Wednesday Air New Zealand had been continuing to fly all trans-Tasman routes and also domestic routes at a lower altitude to avoid the ash cloud.
On Lake Nahuel Huapi, one of the main tourist attractions, the emerald green waters were covered with patches of black ash.
The large, wood-and-fiberglass submersible was discovered in an area along the coast some 100km from the busy port of Buenaventura, west of Bogota, anti-narcotics police chief General Luis Perez told reporters.
December 1998: In Yorta Yorta v Victoria, Justice Olney, the Federal Court judge, determines that native title did not exist over Crown land and water in the claim area along the Murray River in NSW/VIC.
The navy has intercepted a suspected asylum seeker boat carrying 88 people off Australia's northwest coast.
Luke Waters reports from Melville Island, north of Darwin.
The former far-north Queensland quarantine station and leper colony on Fantome Island for Aboriginal and Torres Strait and South Sea islanders has been heritage-listed.
Sounds of laboratory): In a high security laboratory in Geelong, south-west of Melbourne, federal government scientists are engaged in part of an international effort to avert a potentially devastating outbreak of bird flu.
Share This 0 A massive death toll is likely after a boat carrying asylum-seekers sank off the Indonesian island of Java.
Gates on Tuesday stressed the threat posed beyond its borders by Al-Qaeda's branch in Yemen, the ancestral homeland of Osama bin Laden and where vast areas lie outside central government control even in normal times.
Australia's biggest pink diamond has been unearthered in Western Australia from Rio Tinto's Arygle mine in the remote Kimberley region.
Federal Schools Minister Peter Garrett has signed an $8 million agreement to fund education in a remote Northern Territory community.
Farah is a volatile area where remnants of the Taliban ousted from power in the 2001 US-led invasion are fighting to bring down the Western-backed government.
The fire off Yorketown Road was travelling north towards Uley Road, Chapman Drive and Walters Road.
The victim was walking along the Great Northern Highway in Midland with two people early on Saturday morning when a fight broke out with two other men.
Police are searching for a driver who they believe may have seen the crash; the driver of a southbound car was seen turning left off the Princes Highway onto Rocky Point Road around 2am.
The Monaro police command conducted random breath and drug tests at Bungendore, targeting drivers heading to the far south coast on the Kings Highway.
They stole cash and were last seen driving north in a silver sedan.
Wind patterns associated with Modoki interact with seasonal winds in northern Australia to bring more intense monsoons during the wet season.
First and foremost a number of floral tributes and messages that have been left outside the shop by people of all walks of life the meeting they had at the North Epping Anglican Church a few days after the murders was packed out.
The South Australian Government says it is working to address problems which had left some Yorke Peninsula bus drivers without licences.
Topics: law-crime-and-justice, chisholm-2905, canberra-2600 * Steroids, stolen goods found in Chisholm home Posted April 09, 2009 19:00:00 ACT Police have seized drugs and stolen property during the search of a house in southern Canberra early this morning.
The New South Wales Emergency Services Minister, Steve Whan, is urging residents in low-lying inland areas to ensure their flood plans are up-to-date.
Topics: moree-2400, walgett-2832, mungindi-2406 * NSW flood clean-up could take months Posted February 03, 2012 22:20:49 | Updated February 04, 2012 00:15:15 The clean-up from flooding in northern NSW, which has left more than 10,000 people isolated, could take months to complete.
Jonathan Wood: Getty Images) * A cow stands on the roof of a house near Ipswich, west of Brisbane, during the floods Photo: A cow stands on the roof of a house near Ipswich, west of Brisbane, during the floods, January 13, 2011.
Topics: housing-industry, west-wallsend-2286 * Controversial housing set to be approved Posted October 25, 2011 07:52:33 Lake Macquarie council officers have recommended a controversial housing subdivision at West Wallsend be approved, despite strong opposition from local councillors and the community.
Police say the car was travelling north on the freeway about 2:10am (AEDT) when the driver lost control and crashed into the wall, two kilometres south of the Hawkesbury Bridge.
Whan: check your flood plan now Posted December 02, 2010 19:56:00 | Updated December 02, 2010 20:09:00 The New South Wales Emergency Services Minister, Steve Whan, is urging residents in low-lying inland areas to ensure their flood plans are up-to-date.
LINDY KERIN: Wagga Wagga's Mayor Wayne Geale says several hundred people have left their homes, roads have been blocked and there's been widespread sandbagging.
In 1984, Natthi came under the care of the organisation friends For All Children Foundation (FFAC) after she had been left in a Bangkok hospital.
The Country Fire Service (CFS) says the Streaky Bay fire, which is in an area with a catastrophic rating, is burning along the Flinders and Streaky Bay Highways, east of Perlubie, and heading east towards Chilpenunda Road.
Firefighters in Victoria's north-west are on high alert with high temperatures and winds forecast for this afternoon.
Federal Opposition Leader Tony Abbott formed the group in January - it will look at ways of boosting agricultural production and utilising empty land in the north.
Two other workers were left clinging to the structure suspended high above the Bangkok streets in the accident at the Baiyoke tower on Monday afternoon (local time).
Because of the echoing of voices and so forth the voice could sound like it's coming from the west but it's coming from the north, so it's difficult.
Topics: women * Western nations expel Syrian diplomats PM By Naomi Woodley and staff Posted May 29, 2012 17:14:22 | Updated May 30, 2012 05:14:06 An Australian move to expel two Syrian diplomats has been followed by Western nations around the world in an effort to pile pressure on president Bashar al-Assad.
He says several hundred people have left their homes, roads have been blocked, and there has been widespread sandbagging.
Topics: west-ryde-2114 * Sydney water main bursts, homes flooded Posted July 23, 2005 20:00:00 | Updated July 24, 2005 00:38:00 Sydney Water crews will have to wait until later tonight to start repair work on a burst water main that flooded at least 15 homes and several streets in the city's north-west this afternoon.
Topics: storm-disaster, keilor-downs-3038, melbourne-3000 * image Hailstone damage to a plant at Keilor Downs.
Aaron Jamie Ball, 31, is being extradited from South Australia after his arrest in Mount Gambier where he was being treated in hospital.
Topics: fires, nowa-nowa-3887 * Lightening sparks bush fires Posted January 02, 2008 12:15:00 Lightning has sparked dozens of fires in East Gippsland, around the Orbost, Buchan, Nowa Nowa and Dargo areas.
It is the worst flooding in the region in a decade and has left more than two million people homeless.
Firefighters attended the scene of four small grass fires early today in Craigieburn, in Melbourne's north, Tremont in the east, Bell Park near Geelong, and Boort, north-west of Bendigo.
Topics: police, brisbane-city-4000 * image Police form a cordon around Occupy Brisbane protesters in Post Office Square in the Brisbane CBD.
Topics: disasters-and-accidents, calliope-4680, rockhampton-4700 * Stinger girl leaves hospital Posted January 05, 2010 10:09:00 | Updated April 28, 2010 11:32:00 A 10-year-old girl who was stung by a box jellyfish in central Queensland more than two weeks ago has left hospital.
Topics: law-crime-and-justice, australia, fortitude-valley-4006 * Brisbane sinkholes patched up Posted March 05, 2011 09:27:00 Brisbane City Council road crews have repaired two sinkholes in the inner-city suburb of Fortitude Valley.
ALISON CALDWELL: About half of the town of Charlton in Victoria's north-west is under water after over 100 millimetres of rain fell over the weekend.
Topics: disasters-and-accidents, georges-hall-2198, sydney-2000 * Ibis cull to start in Sydney Posted September 21, 2003 09:06:00 Bankstown Council will this week begin a cull of White Ibis populating an island in a park at Georges Hall in Sydney's south-west.
Topics: law-crime-and-justice, nsw * Boggabilla faces minor flood Posted August 26, 2010 14:13:00 The Macintyre River at Boggabilla is expected to exceed its minor flood level this afternoon.
Topics: government-and-politics, health, brisbane-4000, brisbane-city-4000 * Brisbane city cycle centre at half-capacity Melinda Howells Posted December 29, 2009 13:14:00 The Brisbane City Council says the King George Square cycle centre in the middle of the city is operating at below half-capacity.
Topics: police, dandenong-3175 * Protective Service Officers start work at Dandenong station image image Protective Service Officers start work at Dandenong station ABC News Posted May 30, 2012 10:37:03 Protective Services Officers (PSO) were deployed to Dandenong railway station for the first time on May 30.
In this particular instance, if you look into our region, in Japan, in South Korea, in Singapore, in Hong Kong, right across our region, they're laying fibre to the home.
Strong winds are making it difficult for firefighters to control the blaze, as it moves to the east.
Topics: water-pollution, water-supply, wandiligong-3744, wodonga-3690 * Myrtleford mill revamp begins Posted July 30, 2010 11:09:00 Work has started on the $53 million upgrade to the Carter Holt Harvey mill at Myrtleford.
Brigid Andersen: ABC) * Man standing in floodwaters on street in Dalby in southern Qld in the Lockyer Valley.
If you start at the north we go from Leichhardt, Herbert, Dawson, Flynn and then around Brisbane into Ryan and also our incumbent seats of Dickson and Bowman ...
ALISON CALDWELL: Flood waters have reached Shepparton in the state's north-east and Horsham in the north-west along the Goulburn and Wimmera Rivers.
Topics: bowen-hills-4006 * Track fault closes train line Posted November 05, 2009 09:00:00 A track fault at Windsor closed the Ferny Grove line in Brisbane between Mitchellton and Bowen Hills this morning.
Crews are working on fires in the state's north at Narrabri, Inverell and Glenn Innes, while fires at Bilpin and Hurley Heights in the Blue Mountains were contained overnight .
Topics: crime, sa, gawler-5118 * Man rams police car in violent crime spree Posted October 04, 2010 21:07:00 | Updated October 05, 2010 02:48:00 South Australian police are searching for a man who stabbed a woman, rammed a police car and stole a car from people near Gawler north of Adelaide last night.
Australian Muslims are among the first in the world to end Ramadan because the new moon first appears in the southern hemisphere.
Topics: law-crime-and-justice, liverpool-2170 * Schoolyard fight puts boy in hospital Posted March 13, 2008 08:00:00 Police are questioning two students from a high school in Sydney's south-west after a fight left another student in hospital.
Topics: coffs-harbour-2450, nambucca-heads-2448, port-macquarie-2444 * Flood relief flows to oyster industry Posted August 12, 2011 15:01:26 Oyster farmers in every estuary from the Manning to Nambucca are breathing easier after the release of Federal Government flood assistance funds.
Topics: rainfall, licola-3858 * Arsonists destroy forest machinery Posted March 31, 2009 15:08:00 About $500,000 worth of forest machinery has been destroyed in a deliberately lit fire at Woods Point, north of Licola in Victoria.
Topics: fires, kandos-2848 * image Fires burn trees in the Rylstone Kandos area ABC News Posted November 22, 2009 12:57:00 Fires burn trees in the Rylstone Kandos area.
Topics: ulverstone-7315 * Battle of the Coral Sea survivors pause to remember By Lauren Day Posted May 02, 2012 08:05:32 Australian and US survivors of the Battle of the Coral Sea will this morning gather in Cardwell, south of Cairns in far north Queensland, to mark its 70th anniversary.
Topics: environmental-management, water-management, mining-rural, rockhampton-4700 * Blaze claims Mount Morgan flats Paul Robinson Posted March 02, 2011 10:49:00 Fire destroyed a block of flats in Mount Morgan, south-west of Rockhampton, early this morning.
Topics: daw-park-5041, dover-gardens-5048, edwardstown-5039 * Hills posts another record result Posted August 07, 2007 13:41:00 Adelaide-based Hills Industries has posted a record $47 million profit for the past financial year.
RFS Hunter Zone commander Jason McKellar says burning off large areas of bush is not the only answer.
Topics: adelaide-5000, tea-tree-gully-5091 * Appeal to public over sex assault Posted August 21, 2008 16:20:00 Police want help from the public to catch a sex offender who raped a 20-year-old woman in Adelaide's north-eastern suburbs on Sunday night.
He says he can see more smoke coming from the east.
Crews are also patrolling blazes at Nugent in the state's east, and at Cressy and York Town in the north.
Topics: murray-darling-basin, water-supply, leeton-2705, balranald-2715, wagga-wagga-2650 * Office of Water to investigate water saving ideas Posted May 28, 2012 09:56:57 The New South Wales Office of Water has received 50 water saving ideas from communities within the Murray Darling Basin.
Topics: dams-and-reservoirs, mildura-3500, swan-hill-3585, wodonga-3690 * Dry lakes to get top up Posted April 15, 2009 14:02:00 Two dry lakes in Victoria's Wimmera-Mallee will get water this winter.
Topics: old-noarlunga-5168, flagstaff-hill-5159, west-lakes-5021 * Adelaide flood woes continue Posted November 09, 2005 07:32:00 Roads have been closed and houses evacuated on the banks of Adelaide's Gawler River as water levels continue to rise following yesterday's flooding.
India needs Nuclear Power and Nuclear Energy to power it's enormous rural areas (more than 400 Million Poor Rural Area People can be benefited).
Topics: fires, kandos-2848 * Long shot of fires burning trees in Rylstone Kandos area image image Long shot of fires burning trees in Rylstone Kandos area ABC News Posted November 22, 2009 13:02:00 Fires burn trees through the night in the Rylstone Kandos area.
We also have information that she might have visited a tattoo parlour on the Great Western Highway in Sydney's west and we want anyone who might have seen her at the tattoo parlour to come forward.
The Landsborough Bowls Club, near Ararat, is facing closure because of a water shortage.
Bankstown Council will this week begin a cull of White Ibis populating an island in a park at Georges Hall in Sydney's south-west.
Topics: urban-development-and-planning, regional-development, medowie-2318 * Hunter Water protecting winter storages Posted April 26, 2011 06:50:00 | Updated April 26, 2011 07:36:00 Hunter Water is drawing supplies from the Williams River to maintain storage levels in Grahamstown Dam.
Topics: rural, rupanyup-3388 * Grampians Water eases north-west restrictions Posted November 21, 2003 13:43:00 Grampians Water, in north-west Victoria, will ease water restrictions in six towns from midnight tonight.
Topics: law-crime-and-justice, vic, australia * Casey Council meeting ends in arrest Posted April 04, 2012 08:13:39 A council meeting at Narre Warren, in Melbourne's south-east descended in chaos last night with the meeting abandoned and a former councillor being arrested.
Topics: hopetoun-3396, mildura-3500 * Water to flow to Lake Lascelles Posted September 23, 2009 08:34:00 Five-hundred megalitres of water will start flowing into Lake Lascelles at Hopetoun from tomorrow.
Topics: crime, sydney-2000, west-ryde-2114 * Sydney police smash 'armoured-van robbery syndicate' Posted August 22, 2007 12:47:00 Sydney police say they have dismantled an armed robbery syndicate that was allegedly behind the robberies of three armoured vans at Homebush, Villawood and West Ryde between March and July this year.
The interesting thing that does happen when we have floods here is that it cuts off the South Gippsland Highway, the Princes Highway, Highway number 1, goes onto the South Gippsland Highway at Sale, it joins the South Gippsland Highway and that will probably be cut south of Sale later tonight.
A bus carrying school children home from a ski trip in the Swiss Alps hit a concrete wall in a motorway tunnel.
All tracks have been closed in an area bordered by Newcastle in the north, Oberon in the Central West, and the Illawarra to the south.
Beach-goers huddle under Glenelg jetty
The Murray-Darling Electorate also covers major towns such as Broken Hill, Barham, Bourke, Cobar, Euston, Hillston, Ivanhoe, Moama, Wilcannia, and Wentworth.
Topics: bowen-hills-4006 * The first cars to use Brisbane's CLEM7 tunnel exit at the Bowen Hills end image image The first cars to use Brisbane's CLEM7 tunnel exit at the Bowen Hills end ABC News Posted March 16, 2010 07:49:00 | Updated March 16, 2010 07:56:00 The first cars to use Brisbane's CLEM7 tunnel exit the tunnel at Bowen Hills shortly after 10pm on March 15, 2010.
This afternoon a 16-year-old girl was attacked in parkland beside Ithaca Creek, near the Brisbane Broncos Rugby League Club.
Topics: water-management, mildura-3500, torrumbarry-3562 * Napthine says harness racing return on track Posted June 09, 2011 08:51:00 Victorian Racing Minister Denis Napthine says the groundwork is being done to return racing to four closed harness racing tracks in north-west Victoria.
Residents in parts of Victoria's alpine region can look forward to better mobile reception within weeks.
Police say Stuart Liam Courtney, 57, from the Adelaide suburb of Valley View, was arrested in Spring Street, Orange on Saturday in possession of a replica pistol and a set of metal handcuffs.
An exotic fish species native to North and Central America has been found in a waterway in the New South Wales Hunter region.
Topics: quarantine, clarence-gardens-5039, cumberland-park-5041, westbourne-park-5041 * Fruit fly quarantine extension Posted February 07, 2008 14:09:00 | Updated February 07, 2008 14:39:00 A quarantine zone has been extended around a fruit fly outbreak at Daw Park in Adelaide because of the discovery of more fruit fly maggots.
Police patrols will monitor the movement of known firebugs in high-risk fire areas across South Australia in coming days.
Topics: waterfall-gully-5066, sa * Concern over summer hills works Posted October 22, 2009 11:38:00 The Country Fire Service (CFS) says works planned by SA Water on Waterfall Gully Road this summer could put residents in danger.
Topics: police, carina-4152, runcorn-4113 * Govt says Mount Lindsay upgrade will improve safety Posted April 12, 2007 08:21:00 Acting Transport Minister, John Mickel, says the $100 million, stage three upgrade of the Mount Lindsay Highway on Brisbane's southern outskirts will improve motorist and pedestrian safety.
Commonwealth War Graves Commission) * Workers construct a brick boundary wall for a World War I memorial in Fromelles Photo: Workers construct a brick boundary wall for a World War I memorial in the northern French town of Fromelles in 2009.
Victorian Premier John Brumby has announced that extra police and defence force personnel will be sent to the state's north to help with flood relief activities.
The National Parks and Wildlife Service has closed all national parks in those areas to the public.
Kings Cross police arrested a 30-year-old man from Edensor Park in Sydney's south-west.
Topics: national-parks, federal-government, pilliga-2388, narrabri-2390 * Moree stops CSG seismic surveys for 60 days Posted June 04, 2011 13:41:00 | Updated June 04, 2011 13:42:00 Seismic survey work for coal seam gas will stop in the Moree Plains Shire Council area, after Council voted unanimously to back a 60-day moratorium.
Flood waters have reached Shepparton and Horsham along the Goulburn and Wimmera Rivers, but water levels aren't expected to hit their peak until tomorrow.
NSW Police Minister Carl Scully is being asked to provide a police presence at Scotts Head, in the Nambucca, during the busy summer holiday period.
Topics: lifestyle-and-leisure, coffs-harbour-2450, port-macquarie-2444 * Push for Nambucca Heads highway service centre Posted January 18, 2012 08:22:00 The Department of Planning and Infrastructure will be asked to identify Nambucca Shire as a potential spot for a highway service centre.
Topics: vic, casterton-3311 * Green light for Heywood wood pellet mill Posted August 26, 2009 11:01:00 The Glenelg Council has approved plans for a $25 million wood pellet mill at Heywood, north of Portland.
Topics: floods, australia, irymple-3498 * Rail work puts mineral sands plan on track Posted December 15, 2010 11:20:00 Iluka Resources has started work on rail infrastructure worth $6 million at Hamilton and Hopetoun in western Victoria.
Topics: water-pollution, lakes-entrance-3909, sale-3850 * Boat at Lake Bunga anchored near scum from algal bloom image image Boat at Lake Bunga anchored near scum from algal bloom ABC News Posted December 16, 2011 10:28:44 The Victorian Health Department has banned the consumption of fish from the Gippsland Lakes.
Belgium's king and the Dutch crown prince have joined thousands of mourners in an emotional homage to some of the victims of last week's fatal school bus crash in a Swiss alpine tunnel.
Topics: health, australia, park-ridge-4125 * Police seize thousands of marijuana plants Chris Logan Posted March 02, 2010 17:34:00 Police say they have discovered 2,700 marijuana plants in a raid on a house south of Brisbane this morning.
Topics: emergency-incidents, stirling-range-national-park-6338 * WA rock climbers rescued Posted September 30, 2003 20:27:00 Four rock climbers who were missing in Western Australia's Stirling Ranges for two days have all been found safe and well.
Topics: mildura-3500 * National parks fuel reduction burn begins Posted March 23, 2009 09:00:00 | Updated March 23, 2009 09:01:00 Fuel reduction burning will start in the Mallee's national parks today, with a plan for a burn in the Wyperfeld National Park.
Well over 200 millimetres of rain has fallen on mountain areas in Gippsland, prompting authorities to issue major flood warnings for several rivers across the region.
Topics: west-ryde-2114 * Airport arrest over Sydney armed robbery spree Posted January 18, 2012 14:23:58 | Updated January 18, 2012 14:39:49 A man wanted over several armed robberies in Sydney's north-west has been arrested as he stepped off a plane from Queensland.
Jennifer Macey: ABC News) * Shane Watson bowls during a game of street cricket amongst flood debris Photo: Ipswich local and Australian Test cricketer, Shane Watson, bowls during a game of street cricket with local kids amongst flood debris in the Ipswich suburb of North Booval, west of Brisbane, on January 17, 2011.
Topics: money-and-monetary-policy, economic-trends, qld, brisbane-city-4000 * Brisbane street remains closed as authorities probe sinkhole Imogen Brennan Posted February 08, 2011 09:51:00 | Updated February 08, 2011 11:38:00 The Brisbane City Council is warning more sink holes may appear on the city's roads.
Topics: weather, nsw, sydney-2000, tinamba-3859 * Flood waters head towards Sale (video) By Mark DeBono Posted August 12, 2011 07:38:59 | Updated August 12, 2011 14:13:49 Emergency services are shifting their focus from flooding at Bairnsdale in East Gippsland, to Sale, as floodwaters head towards the Gippsland Lakes.
Topics: orbost-3888, cabbage-tree-creek-3889 * School kids stranded on rocks in bad weather By Mark DeBono Posted April 25, 2012 11:34:34 Emergency services are battling stormy conditions in far east Gippsland where a group of school children is stranded on rocks near Mallacoota.
Topics: research, broken-hill-2880 * RFDS hope to expand in far west Posted June 13, 2011 07:40:00 The Royal Flying Doctor Service is hoping to expand its services in the far west.
Topics: telecommunications, landsborough-3384, mildura-3500 * Rain relief for Pyrenees' farmers Posted March 09, 2010 15:13:00 Farmers in the Pyrenees region are hopeful the weekend's rain spells an early break to the season.
Meanwhile, police are yet to formally interview the brother of Mr Zervas who was shot outside a block of units in Sydney's south-west on Sunday night.
Topics: road, law-crime-and-justice, cecil-hills-2171, sydney-2000 * Cool change helps extinguish Sydney grass fires Posted October 14, 2006 21:05:00 | Updated October 14, 2006 22:25:00 A cool change has helped firefighters extinguish grass fires at Cecil Hills in Sydney's west.
Topics: programs-and-initiatives, road-transport, local-government, qld, woolloongabba-4102 * Flooding at the corner of Lutwyche Road and Northey Street, Bowen Hills, Brisbane image image Flooding at the corner of Lutwyche Road and Northey Street, Bowen Hills, Brisbane ABC News Posted November 21, 2008 09:26:00 Flooding at the corner of Lutwyche Road and Northey Street, Bowen Hills, Brisbane, on November 20, 2008.
Bluff Knoll, on the left in landscape shot during day of Stirling Range national park where hiker lost
No more future, no more beautiful children's dreams, just your unbearable and endless pain: we share it with you,' said a message left among piles of flowers massed by the school entrance.
Topics: nsw, rouse-hill-2155, sa * image Car crashes into power pole ABC News Posted April 28, 2008 09:25:00 A Porsche lies on the side of the road after crashing into a power pole at Castle Hill Road in north-west Sydney in the early hours of April 27, 2008.
Topics: air-pollution, water, water-supply, parliament, greens, edwardstown-5039, sa * Council knew of ground water worries in 2008 (audio) Posted February 25, 2011 09:37:00 | Updated February 25, 2011 16:32:00 Marion Council said they first knew of ground water contamination at the former Hills Holdings site at Edwardstown in 2008.
We have rivers rising from as far apart as Mitchell down in Bairnsdale area in Gippsland, the Wimmera up in the Horsham area, and we still have rivers of concern around the northern areas of north-east Victoria in Wangaratta and Shepparton,' he said.
Topics: manufacturing, dandenong-3175 * $4m worth of cannabis seized in raids Posted March 27, 2012 10:22:44 | Updated March 27, 2012 11:47:08 Police have seized nearly $4 million worth of cannabis following raids in south-eastern suburbs in Melbourne this morning.
Topics: states-and-territories, ballarat-3350, maryborough-3465 * Desal plant promises drinking water boost Posted June 23, 2011 06:55:00 A water desalination plant at Avoca, north-west of Ballarat, will improve the town's water quality to drinking standard.
Topics: health, hopetoun-3396, robinvale-3549 * Lake Lascelles breaks decade-long dry spell Posted September 25, 2009 08:36:00 Water has flowed into Lake Lascelles, near Hopetoun, for the first time in 10 years.
Topics: road, law-crime-and-justice, park-ridge-4125, wa * Horror crash: Police involvement investigated Posted December 05, 2009 11:00:00 The Ethical Standards Command is investigating the involvement of police in a fatal crash on Brisbane's southside.
Waterways in the area are also affected by the invasive noxious weed, alligator weed, another exotic pest.
Topics: law-crime-and-justice, brisbane-4000 * Police investigate Brisbane stabbings Posted June 27, 2009 12:44:00 Police are investigating two stabbings on Brisbane's southside this morning.
Fires burn trees in the Rylstone Kandos area Email
Long shot of fires burning trees in Rylstone Kandos area
Yesterday, police narrowed the search down to a small area, covering a four-square kilometre area of bushland near Bluff Knoll in the park.
Topics: nerang-4211, southport-4215 * Experts probe Gold Coast house blaze By Russell Varley Posted May 30, 2012 07:52:32 Fire investigators will return this morning to the scene of a fire that destroyed a house on Queensland's Gold Coast.
ABC TV) * Rockhampton locals wait out the floods at a house in the Depot Hill area Photo: Rockhampton locals wait out the floods at a house in the Depot Hill area of the flooded city on January 4, 2011.
Topics: federal-government, heathcote-2233, stirling-range-national-park-6338 * WA climbers discharged from hospital Posted October 01, 2003 00:15:00 Four rock climbers who were missing in West Australia's Stirling Ranges in near freezing conditions for two days have been discharged from hospital.
Topics: brisbane-city-4000 * Council gives go-ahead for Brisbane tower Posted November 23, 2011 08:15:13 The Brisbane City Council has granted approval for a 37-storey commercial tower in the CBD.
Topics: indigenous-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander, animal-attacks, bundaberg-4670, maroochydore-4558 * Tide fails to save stranded humpback Posted June 06, 2012 19:31:41 | Updated June 07, 2012 11:40:38 The high tide has failed to save a young humpback whale beached on Fraser Island off south-east Queensland.
Topics: water, federal---state-issues, leeton-2705, deniliquin-2710 * Office of Water admits Basin Plan water hard to deliver Posted June 04, 2012 09:59:13 The New South Wales Office of Water says it will be extremely hard to deliver the environmental water that has been identified for the Murray Darling Basin.
The tsunami also devastatied countless square km of land and left ships sitting on top of buildings).
Lance Richardson: User submitted) * An aerial view of flood water surging in the Queensland town of Theodore Photo: An aerial view of flood water surging in the Queensland town of Theodore, on Sunday, December 26, 2010.
Topics: road-transport, raymond-terrace-2324, williamtown-2318 * Upper Hunter bush to off-set Port Stephens sand mine Posted August 23, 2011 07:52:16 Bushland in the Upper Hunter is the new environmental offset site for a multi-million dollar sand extraction operation at Port Stephens.
Topics: storm-disaster, kimba-5641, port-lincoln-5606, port-pirie-5540 * SA crews battle fire flare-ups Posted December 02, 2006 09:00:00 Hundreds of Country Fire Service volunteers will head out to fire grounds across South Australia this morning.
Topics: air-force, salt-ash-2318, newcastle-2300 * MP takes aim at weapons range noise Posted February 24, 2010 09:36:00 There are renewed calls for the Australian Defence Force to close its weapons range at Salt Ash, north of Sydney.
Topics: rugby-league, balmain-2041, campbelltown-2560 * Sydney shooting investigators make arrest Posted February 16, 2011 10:29:00 Police investigating a shooting in Sydney's south-west in the early hours of Tuesday morning have charged a man with weapons offences.
Topics: local-government, tathra-2550 * Bega Valley issues boil water alert Posted February 17, 2010 10:18:00 The Bega Valley Shire Council on the New South Wales far south coast has issued a boil water alert for people on the Bemboka, Bega, Kalaru and Tathra water supply systems for the next few days.
Toowoomba Police) * Margaret Street in Toowoomba is swallowed by floodwaters Photo: Margaret Street in Toowoomba is swallowed by floodwaters on January 10, 2011.
Topics: sport, qld, brisbane-4000 * Drink Safe project starts in Fortitude Valley Donna Field Posted December 02, 2010 15:28:00 | Updated December 03, 2010 08:39:00 A new trial to improve safety in Brisbane's Fortitude Valley entertainment area starts this weekend.
Topics: law-crime-and-justice, australia, northmead-2152 * Police investigate four drive-by shootings in Sydney Video Video Police investigate four drive-by shootings in Sydney ABC News 3min 8sec Posted April 17, 2012 06:39:05 | Updated April 17, 2012 09:09:00 Police are investigating four separate shootings in Sydney's west.
Professor England says more frequent Modoki patterns could have significant impacts on the farming sector in northern Australia outside the wet season.
Topics: foreign-affairs, opera-and-musical-theatre, activism-and-lobbying, australia * image People take part in a a candlelight vigil in Hong Kong to mark the 1989 crackdown in Tiananmen Square.
Topics: community-and-society, urban-development-and-planning, lakemba-2195, vic, northbridge-6003 * M1 widening to start after Easter Russell Varley Posted March 26, 2010 12:37:00 Queensland Main Roads Minister Craig Wallace says work will start after Easter on further widening of the M1 on the Gold Coast.
The Brisbane City Council says the King George Square cycle centre in the middle of the city is operating at below half-capacity.
Topics: corryong-3707, wodonga-3690 * Strong winds batter Goulburn Murray Posted August 26, 2009 12:03:00 Gale force winds caused havoc in parts of Victoria's Goulburn Murray region overnight, with 103 calls for help.
Tourist boat to cruise outback Cooper Creek By Nicola Gage Posted June 21, 2012 11:33:19 A boat will take tourists along part of Cooper Creek in the outback to see the original grave sites of explorers Burke and Wills.
Meanwhile, a severe fire danger continues across the northern half of Victoria today.
The accident happened at Doddie's Beach, Halls Head, south of Perth.
Crime rampage, high-speed chase, in Adelaide's north
Topics: building-and-construction, industry, woolloongabba-4102 * Construction crews work on the Pacific Highway in Woolloongabba image image Construction crews work on the Pacific Highway in Woolloongabba ABC News Posted September 30, 2009 12:15:00 | Updated October 01, 2009 09:41:00 Construction crews work on the Pacific Highway in Woolloongabba as part of Brisbane's Clem7 tunnel project in June 2008.
Senior Sergeant Peter Cantwell says a huge amount of water is surging down the Macalister, Avon and Thomson rivers.
Topics: mental-health, sydney-2000 * Boat parking leaves Sydney councils at sea Posted February 13, 2012 14:34:19 A Sydney council is taking aim at boat lovers, with a proposal to restrict parking for boats and trailers on its streets.
Police have confirmed that seven people have died in a fiery head-on road accident at Donald in Victoria's north-west.
Kangaroo Flat's Centro Lansell shopping centre car park is the latest last resort refuge to be added to the region's list.
Topics: ballarat-3350, talbot-3371 * New page set to open in Clunes history Posted July 20, 2007 13:33:00 The historic gold town of Clunes, north of Ballarat in central Victoria, has plans to become an Australian 'book town', linking it with book towns across Europe, North America and Asia.
The Prime Minister and Opposition Leader faced voters in the second forum of the election campaign, held in Brisbane's inner west on Wednesday night.
Topics: hunters-hill-2110 * Sydney suburbs named as state's worst water wasters Posted October 21, 2006 06:28:00 The Sydney suburbs of Woollahra, Hunters Hill, Mosman and Strathfield still rate among the worst areas in New South Wales for wasting water, despite cutting back over recent years.
Councillors Audrey McArdle and David McRae are spearheading a move to prevent the Hunter New England Health Service from buying council-owned land next to the Tingha town hall.
People at Sale and Bairnsdale in Gippsland in eastern Victoria are watching anxiously as local waterways approach major flood levels.
Topics: health, health-administration, law-crime-and-justice, mount-isa-4825 * Doctor cross-examined at Doomadgee girl's inquest Chrissy Arthur Posted August 25, 2010 18:21:00 | Updated August 26, 2010 11:26:00 A doctor has been cross-examined at an inquest into the death of a four-year-old girl at Doomadgee in far north Queensland's Gulf country.
Sydney Water crews will have to wait until later tonight to start repair work on a burst water main that flooded at least 15 homes and several streets in the city's north-west this afternoon.
Australian and New Zealand defence force personnel march during the dawn service at the Anzac commemorative site at Gallipoli in Turkey on April 25, 2012.
Topics: accidents, australia, brisbane-4000 * Police arrest 7 in city-wide operation Posted June 24, 2009 23:00:00 Seven people have been arrested after a major police operation in and around Brisbane.
Topics: police, sydney-2000 * Club held up with garden stakes Posted August 27, 2007 09:12:00 | Updated August 27, 2007 09:14:00 Five men armed with garden stakes and pieces of wood held up a club in north-west Sydney overnight.
Topics: local-government, nanango-4615, toowoomba-4350 * Tarong power station gets extended life By Sam Burgess Posted April 23, 2012 11:17:03 The operators of a power station in southern Queensland's South Burnett region says a multi-million-dollar refit will prolong its life by at least 25 years.
Watch Melinda Taylor arrive in Rome
None threatened property, while other grass fires at Briagolong and Heyfield in Gippsland, Hiawatha, north-west of Melbourne, and in the Wandong area, north of Melbourne, were quickly brought under control.
Sarah Clarke: ABC News) * Photo: Australian army personnel work alongside residents to clear debris from a street in a flood-affected suburb of Brisbane on January 17, 2011.
Topics: urban-development-and-planning, local-government, sale-3850 * Council seeks more boat ramp details Posted April 04, 2012 12:28:14 The East Gippsland Shire Council has voted to send a proposal for a new lower impact boat ramp development for Mallacoota back to the Victorian Government.
Topics: water, government-and-politics, local-government, st-george-4487, toowoomba-4350 * Calls for more river flood reporting stations Fidelis Rego Posted January 21, 2011 13:42:00 The Goondiwindi Regional Council in southern Queensland says more reporting stations are needed on border rivers to help communities prepare for floods.
Topics: crime, nsw, west-ryde-2114 * Park rapist's sentence increased Posted June 02, 2009 11:29:00 | Updated June 02, 2009 12:00:00 A Sydney man who raped an 82-year-old woman in a park has had his minimum jail sentence increased by one year.
Topics: disasters-and-accidents, environment, water, water-supply, local-government, qld, newstead-4006, windsor-4030 * Council puts Brisbane residents on flood alert Andree Withey and Francis Tapim Posted October 14, 2010 08:00:00 | Updated October 14, 2010 09:28:00 The Brisbane City Council says it is playing it safe by warning residents to prepare for the possibility of street flooding around the city.
Topics: disasters-and-accidents, storm-event, brisbane-4000, kingaroy-4610, southport-4215, toowoomba-4350 * Downpour floods Nanango Jackson Vernon Posted January 19, 2011 11:23:00 Rain caused localised flooding in the South Burnett town of Nanango overnight.
House destroyed by fire at Salt Ash
Topics: event, government-and-politics, sa * Defence personnel at the Gallipoli dawn service image image Defence personnel at the Gallipoli dawn service ABC News Posted April 25, 2012 17:16:28 Australian and New Zealand defence force personnel march during the dawn service at the Anzac commemorative site at Gallipoli on April 25, 2012.
Topics: belgium * Belgium honours school bus crash victims Posted March 22, 2012 10:10:59 | Updated March 22, 2012 10:21:31 Belgium's king and the Dutch crown prince have joined thousands of mourners in an emotional homage to some of the victims of last week's fatal school bus crash in a Swiss alpine tunnel.
Topics: ashford-2361, matheson-2370, tingha-2369 * Police probe second club break-in Posted January 22, 2009 12:02:00 There has been another club break-in overnight in Tingha, after the Armidale City Bowling Club break-in the night before.
Topics: water-supply, tamworth-2340 * Kelly to hear push for Splitrock Dam pipeline Posted February 17, 2010 14:34:00 The federal Water Parliamentary Secretary, Mike Kelly, will meet the Barraba community, local politicians and Tamworth Regional Council today to hear why a pipeline should be built from Splitrock Dam to the town.
Topics: law-crime-and-justice, brisbane-4000, runcorn-4113 * Police negotiate end to Brisbane stand-off Posted March 11, 2010 12:32:00 A woman is in hospital and a man is in police custody after a stand-off ended in Brisbane's south.
Topics: law-crime-and-justice, cranbourne-3977 * Armed guards patrol Dandenong station Posted May 30, 2012 12:25:59 Dandenong will become the first outer-metropolitan railway station to be patrolled by armed guards after dark.
Topics: business-economics-and-finance, federal-government, weather, sydney-2000 * Flash floods hit Sydney suburbs Posted April 04, 2007 10:09:00 Storms and heavy rain have caused flash flooding in some parts of Sydney's eastern suburbs.
Topics: water-supply, bemboka-2550, bega-2550 * Authorities call for more Bemboka water tests Posted March 02, 2010 05:48:00 Authorities are requesting further test results before a boil water alert is lifted at Bemboka, west of Bega, on the New South Wales far south coast.
The caravan park next door is awash with brown, fast-flowing water as the river takes over.
Mr Baker says water gauges in the Macallister River were swept away in rising flood waters last night.
Topics: environment, animal-science, bundalong-3730, myrtleford-3737 * Residents gain local access to government services Posted January 17, 2011 12:05:00 The Federal Government's mobile office will be in north-east Victoria this week.
Topics: road-transport, local-government, brisbane-4000, kenmore-hills-4069 * Police investigate high school stabbing Posted February 28, 2009 09:30:00 Police are continuing their investigations into a stabbing incident at a high school in Brisbane's north-west yesterday afternoon.
Topics: lidcombe-2141, chester-hill-2162 * School fire puts 19 in hospital Posted April 07, 2011 15:00:00 Three adults and 16 children are being treated in hospital after a fire broke out at a school in Sydney's south-west this afternoon.
The two teenagers died in a head-on smash on Richardson Road at Camp Vale north of Williamtown on Sunday night.
Topics: bemboka-2550, bega-2550 * Rain cuts Bega Valley to ACT road link Posted March 02, 2012 15:37:58 Flood rain has closed the main traffic link between the Bega Valley and the Monaro in the New South Wales south east.
Most SES resources are currently deployed in Waterfall Gully, Norwood, Gawler, and Old Noarlunga, where there is still a high flood risk.
Topics: armed-robbery, adelaide-5000, parafield-gardens-5107, salisbury-downs-5108 * Police chase leaves three injured Posted October 25, 2007 08:42:00 A police car was damaged in one of two chases in Adelaide's north overnight; the other chase left three people injured.
The federal Water Parliamentary Secretary, Mike Kelly, will meet the Barraba community, local politicians and Tamworth Regional Council today to hear why a pipeline should be built from Splitrock Dam to the town.
The South Australian Government will spend $300,000 on stage one of upgrading the Waterfall Gully to Mount Lofty summit walking trail.
Topics: law-crime-and-justice, seven-hills-2147, blacktown-2148 * Fast food robbery in Sydney's west Posted March 07, 2011 09:34:00 | Updated March 07, 2011 09:35:00 Sydney police are searching for three masked men who held up a fast food restaurant in the city's west last night.
Topics: lakes-entrance-3909, bairnsdale-3875 * Sandbagged shops at Lakes Entrance, Victoria June 7, 2012 image image Sandbagged shops at Lakes Entrance, Victoria June 7, 2012 ABC News Posted June 07, 2012 10:50:05 Lakes Entrance survived two high tides unscathed and water levels in the major river systems in the region are dropping.
Topics: coffs-harbour-2450, scotts-head-2447 * MP urges more police for Scotts Head Posted January 11, 2006 08:46:00 NSW Police Minister Carl Scully is being asked to provide a police presence at Scotts Head, in the Nambucca, during the busy summer holiday period.
Last night there were still about 1,500 customers in western Victoria without power, most of them in Hamilton, Portland, Daylesford, Warrnambool and the Bellarine Peninsula.
Mr Rogers says crews are working to control fires on the northern outskirts of Sydney, affecting the Hawkesbury, Bilpin and Colo Heights areas.
Ms Kelly says land clearers are continuing to remove native forest, heath and other bushland at a frightening pace in the Illawarra, Shoalhaven and Eurobodalla.
Floods close border tourist road
Topics: law-crime-and-justice, northfield-5085, port-augusta-5700, port-pirie-5540 * Adelaide police hunt armed robbers Posted February 21, 2009 14:16:00 Police are searching for two men armed with knives who robbed a tavern at Northfield in Adelaide's north last night.
Topics: recycling-and-waste-management, bemboka-2550 * Council lifts Bemboka boil water alert Posted March 03, 2010 10:08:00 The Bega Valley Shire Council in the New South Wales South East has lifted a boil water alert for the Bemboka community, west of Bega.
Topics: international-aid-and-trade, switzerland * Suu Kyi departs on landmark Europe tour By South-East Asia correspondent Zoe Daniel Posted June 13, 2012 17:05:30 | Updated June 15, 2012 06:02:18 Burmese opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi has left the country to visit Europe for the first time in more than two decades.
Model Caroline Byrne, whose body was found at the bottom of the ocean cliff known as The Gap, at Watson's Bay in Sydney, in 1995.
Topics: bushfire, bundaberg-4670, maroochydore-4558, townsville-4810 * Fraser Island lake being 'loved to death' Frances Adcock Posted September 30, 2011 12:48:35 | Updated September 30, 2011 12:48:36 The Queensland Parks and Wildlife Service (QPWS) has defended its decision to fence off a section of Lake McKenzie on Fraser Island, off the state's south-east.
Topics: eurobin-3739, wodonga-3690 * Illegal tobacco ring busted in north-east Victoria Posted February 28, 2008 14:02:00 Police investigations are continuing into the an illegal tobacco operation in north-east Victoria.
Topics: building-and-construction, industry, woolloongabba-4102 * A welder works on components for Brisbane's Clem7 tunnel project image image A welder works on components for Brisbane's Clem7 tunnel project ABC News Posted September 30, 2009 14:08:00 | Updated October 01, 2009 09:39:00 A welder works on components for Brisbane's Clem7 tunnel project, which will link the suburbs of Woolloongabba and Bowen Hills, during construction in May 2009.
Topics: derby-6728, broome-6725 * Missing man finds way to remote station Posted November 07, 2011 16:28:29 A 41-year-old Perth man has been found safe after spending more than 24 hours in remote Kimberley bushland.
Topics: states-and-territories, bourke-2840, dubbo-2830, orange-2800 * Water supply drops to critical level Posted September 06, 2011 08:46:41 The water supply of Lightning Ridge in north-western New South Wales has fallen to a critical level because of a break in the main pipeline to the town's bore.
Topics: national-parks, federal-government, pilliga-2388, narrabri-2390 * Protester occupies Pilliga CSG well Catherine Clifford Posted July 05, 2011 14:21:00 Around 20 demonstrators have surrounded a coal seam gas rig in the Pilliga State Forest, west of Narrabri.
Topics: weather, kerang-3579, shepparton-3630 * Flood watch shifts to north-east (video) (photos) Posted December 09, 2010 07:34:00 | Updated December 09, 2010 11:13:00 Emergency authorities are watching swollen flood waters in the state's north-east after torrential rain yesterday.
Topics: workplace, sa * Youth arrested after police chase Posted November 05, 2007 08:14:00 | Updated November 05, 2007 10:47:00 Adelaide police have arrested a 17-year-old youth after a short police chase on Anzac Highway.
House lost in east coast bushfire
A bushfire is now burning out of control near Streaky Bay, on South Australia's west coast, in an area which has a catastrophic danger rating.
Emergency service crews are evacuating homes in Victoria's south-east as floodwaters rise after two days of torrential rain.
The spillway at Glenmaggie Dam in central Gippsland has overflowed.
Topics: police, carina-4152, runcorn-4113 * Brisbane gets 96 extra bus services Posted January 11, 2008 21:19:00 An extra 96 bus services will start next month to try to ease the pressure on Brisbane's busiest and over-crowded routes.
Topics: offbeat, arts-and-entertainment, italy * Sculptors set to work on Hills creations (video) Posted April 10, 2012 11:36:30 | Updated April 11, 2012 07:51:29 Eight sculptors are starting work on granite and marble creations, which will be displayed at sites throughout the Adelaide Hills.
A fire in the Gladstone area yesterday destroyed vineyards at the Gecko Valley winery.
MICHAEL EDWARDS: The floods have devastated farms in the area.
The council's community services manager, Martin Walmsley, says a trial bus service on Saturdays, from Trentham through the shire to Ballarat, will start next month.
The State Emergency Service (SES) is doorknocking the towns of Boisedale and Stratford, north of Sale in Gippsland, where rivers and creeks are expected to exceed major flood levels.
Topics: disasters-and-accidents, traralgon-3844, carrajung-3844, drouin-3818, pakenham-3810, won-wron-3971, yarram-3971 * Towns on alert as Bunyip blaze continues to burn Posted February 06, 2009 18:01:00 A number of towns near Melbourne's eastern fringe have been put on high alert as fire crews continue to battle a blaze in the Bunyip State Park.
Topics: melbourne-3000, yaapeet-3424 * Control burns planned for Mallee Posted March 15, 2010 11:00:00 The Department of Sustainability is planning to start two big fire control burns in Victoria's Mallee today.
Topics: bundaberg-4670 * Some Southern Burnett towns still isolated Posted January 13, 2011 07:54:00 More than 60 people have spent the night in evacuation centres across Queensland's South Burnett region.
Topics: crime, nsw, west-ryde-2114 * Public housing development gets government tick Posted June 23, 2010 08:20:00 The New South Wales Government has approved a concept plan for a new public housing project in the northern Sydney suburb of West Ryde.
Police chased the thieves at high-speed to the Mawson Lakes area, but they escaped.
Wagga Wagga City Council says there will be no risk to public safety when it digs up toxic soil on the city's former gasworks site.
Park floods in northern Victoria
Topics: government-and-politics, health, mareeba-4880 * Teen in hospital after bushland rescue Kristy Sexton-McGrath Posted June 15, 2010 08:36:00 | Updated June 15, 2010 08:37:00 A 17-year-old boy rescued from far north Queensland bushland this morning is being treated in Cairns Base Hospital.
He's on the Avon Richardson catchment and says the flood waters have turned his house into an island.
Topics: road-transport, regional, local-government, alp, rural, calliope-4680, rockhampton-4700 * Accommodation village planned for Calliope Shelley Old Posted June 23, 2010 11:49:00 QLDAustralia's largest integrated accommodation services provider has announced plans to develop an accommodation village in Calliope, south-west of Gladstone in central Queensland.
They want to go back and just strengthen up on the northern boundary, which is the windward boundary and the least risky boundary, but the other boundaries have been tracked and I'm confident that they'll be okay.
The Rural Fire Service (RFS) says overnight crews will monitor fires still burning in the Hunter, Blue Mountains, Singleton and in the Hawkesbury, near Bilpin.
A 35-year-old female ultra-light aircraft pilot is being flown to a Melbourne hospital after her aircraft crashed at Mangalore in central Victoria this morning.
Four rock climbers who were missing in West Australia's Stirling Ranges in near freezing conditions for two days have been discharged from hospital.
Robert O'Hara Burke and William John Wills led a party of explorers who left Menindee near Broken Hill in 1860.
Topics: maryborough-3465, avoca-3467 * Demand sees council sell more industrial land Posted April 19, 2010 13:00:00 The Pyrenees Shire is selling 11 blocks of industrial land in the small towns of Avoca and Beaufort.
Topics: law-crime-and-justice, vic, keilor-downs-3038 * Melbourne burglary ring busted Posted September 05, 2009 12:04:00 Police say they have smashed an organised burglary ring operating in Melbourne's western suburbs.
ELEANOR HALL: That's former assistant police commissioner Clive Small ending that report by Michael Vincent.
Topics: environment, rural, sa * Farmers welcome flood benefits Posted March 29, 2010 14:10:00 Pastoralists in South Australia's far north-east say floodwaters coming down from Queensland will produce growth that will feed cattle for at least two years.
Photo: Model Caroline Byrne, whose body was found at the bottom of the ocean cliff known as The Gap, at Watson's Bay in Sydney, in 1995.
Topics: disasters-and-accidents, emergency-planning, boort-3537, echuca-3564, quambatook-3540, wycheproof-3527 * Loddon Shire flood clean-up 'will be huge' Posted January 17, 2011 09:49:00 On the Loddon River, floodwater is moving downstream towards Kerang, where a public meeting will be held at midday today.
Topics: law-crime-and-justice, glebe-2037, woollahra-2025 * Not-so-mega marina plan gets green light Posted August 18, 2009 14:25:00 | Updated August 18, 2009 14:40:00 The NSW Land and Environment Court has given conditional consent for the partial expansion of Rose Bay marina in Sydney's east.
Areas along the banks of the Murrumbidgee have already been evacuated, with two caravan parks in the nearby town of Gundagai cleared as flood waters deluged the area.
Two teenagers are being treated for stab wounds after a fight involving three people at the Keilor Plains railway station, in Melbourne's north-west.
Topics: floods, lakes-entrance-3909 * Gippsland 'open for business' after floods Posted June 08, 2012 11:41:02 | Updated June 08, 2012 12:07:03 Victorian Premier Ted Baillieu is urging tourists to visit Gippsland this long weekend, despite flooding in the region.
South Australia's Environment Minister Jay Weatherill says the most popular walking trail in the Adelaide Hills will be upgraded.
Topics: travel-health-and-safety, tamworth-2340 * Flying blind: lighting outback airstrips Natalie Whiting Posted March 12, 2012 15:40:33 The Royal Flying Doctor Service lands on hundreds of dirt strips in remote towns and stations in the furthest corners of Australia every year.
Topics: youth, work, programs-and-initiatives, perth-6000 * Gladstone Port faces strike threat Posted June 28, 2012 14:07:26 The Maritime Union of Australia (MUA) says it hopes the federal Workplace Relations Minister can help avert a week-long strike at the port of Gladstone in central Queensland.
Many residents of those towns affected are still in shock after yesterday's accident at the intersection of the Borung Highway and the Donald-Swan Hill Road.
Topics: disasters-and-accidents, sydney-2000 * Sydney suburbs named as state's worst water wasters Posted October 21, 2006 06:28:00 The Sydney suburbs of Woollahra, Hunters Hill, Mosman and Strathfield still rate among the worst areas in New South Wales for wasting water, despite cutting back over recent years.
Meanwhile, the Sturt Highway between Wagga Wagga and Narrandera is closed and may not reopen for the next five days as a result of flood waters.
The Macalister flows into the Thomson, the Thomson flows through Sale and joins the La Trobe River and flows to the Gippsland Lakes.
Topics: floods, mildura-3500 * Miner considers Robinvale rail project Posted March 05, 2012 08:54:56 The mining company Iluka is investigating building a rail head at Robinvale to move material to its mineral sands processing plant at Hamilton.
Retail trading has been allowed on Anzac Day for the first time in Adelaide's Rundle Mall.
User submitted: Noel Hall) * Volunteers clear out thousands of textbooks ruined in the flood in the Brisbane suburb of Milton Photo: Volunteers clear out thousands of textbooks ruined in the flood in the Brisbane suburb of Milton, January 16, 2011.
Topics: tully-4854 * Bligh hails 'gutsy' north Qld on Yasi anniversary (video) Emma Pollard, Brad Ryan and Kirsty Nancarrow Posted February 02, 2012 10:16:43 | Updated February 03, 2012 07:25:20 Premier Anna Bligh has marked the anniversary of Cyclone Yasi with locals in Tully, south of Cairns in far north Queensland.
Topics: bushfire, bundaberg-4670, mount-morgan-4714, yeppoon-4703, tully-4854 * Fears fish disease spreading off central Qld (video) (photos) Paul Robinson Posted September 30, 2011 07:21:17 | Updated September 30, 2011 08:57:12 There is concern a sickness affecting fish in the Gladstone harbour off central Queensland has spread north to the Capricorn Coast.
Saturday thunderstorms leave Flinders Street in Melbourne's CBD awash, with water as deep as 30cm in some places.
Scott Barbour: Getty Images) * Photo: The Yarra River floodplains near Healesville, north of Melbourne, are covered in water after heavy rain in the area on September 7, 2010.
Police say the South Gippsland Highway between Sale and Longford may close today.
Topics: disasters-and-accidents, medowie-2318 * Traffic snarls force school buses to change routes Posted March 10, 2011 06:11:00 | Updated March 10, 2011 09:10:00 Hunter Valley Buses says peak hour traffic along Newcastle Road has forced it to change one of its morning routes in order to get Wallsend secondary students to school on time.
Expect to hear an awful lot about Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Iowa, Michigan, Missouri, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Ohio, Virginia and Wisconsin.
Floods wash through SE Australia
Topics: rugby-union, australia * Video Contact Sport Friday 25 May Contact Sport 26min 49sec Posted May 25, 2012 19:31:31 | Updated May 25, 2012 22:47:46 Paul Kennedy takes a trip to the Mornington Peninsula to rediscover the secrets of a tragedy which claimed the lives of local footballers.
Topics: newcastle-2300, raymond-terrace-2324 * Long wait for Hunter housing Posted March 30, 2012 07:27:29 The state government has for the first time revealed that waiting times for public housing in large parts of the Hunter and Port Stephens are now up to 10 years or more.
Topics: noojee-3833, sale-3850 * Wild weather has silver lining for ski resorts Posted June 21, 2011 11:00:00 Last night's stormy weather across Gippsland came with a silver lining for the region's ski resorts.
Topics: animals, gladstone-4680 * Former Gladstone mayor dies in hospital Paul Robinson Posted November 29, 2010 09:25:00 | Updated November 29, 2010 12:33:00 Former Gladstone mayor George Creed died last night at the Mater hospital in Rockhampton in central Queensland.
Will Ockenden : ABC Rural) * Photo: Rochester facing biggest floods on record (7pm TV News VIC) * Residents in the Lockyer Valley, west of Brisbane, sit on a roof as flash floods sweep past Photo: Residents in the Lockyer Valley, west of Brisbane, sit on a roof as flash floods sweep through the valley on January 10, 2011.
Topics: fires, sa, tas, vic, craigieburn-3064, mangalore-3663, stawell-3380 * Pilot training school to open at Mangalore Airport Erin Matthews Posted November 02, 2007 10:24:00 | Updated November 02, 2007 10:26:00 A pilot training academy will open at Mangalore Airport near Seymour in Victoria's North later this year.
The Fairfax press may, once again, have broad appeal rather than cater for the small, niche green socialists from inner Sydney and Melbourne.
Topics: industry, road-transport, melbourne-airport-3045 * Alert as wildfire moves in on Red Centre town By Allyson Horn Posted December 20, 2011 10:49:59 | Updated December 20, 2011 17:43:40 Bushfires NT is working to control a scrub blaze less than three kilometres from Alice Springs.
Topics: indigenous-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander, mining-rural, longreach-4730, mount-isa-4825 * Supplies needed for flood-cut western communities Chrissy Arthur and Stephanie Fitzpatrick Posted March 21, 2011 08:36:00 | Updated March 21, 2011 11:25:00 Food and other essential supplies are being boated across the flooded Bulloo River to Thargomindah in Queensland's south-west.
Topics: indigenous-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander, government-and-politics, halls-head-6210 * Public to get say on addressing vandalism Posted March 13, 2007 10:08:00 | Updated March 13, 2007 10:09:00 Halls Head residents are being encouraged to voice their opinion on what can be done to stop antisocial behaviour in the area.
Topics: local-government, gladstone-4680 * Bruce Highway flood threat remains By Paul Robinson Posted December 21, 2011 09:15:20 The RACQ has warned sections of the Bruce Highway along Queensland's coast are still at risk of flooding, one year after last summer's natural disasters.
A Newcastle transport advocate says the inner-city's 'Fare Free Zone' has exceeded expectations and would be even more popular if proper park 'n' ride facilities were developed.
Topics: law-crime-and-justice, sexual-offences, nsw * Indian students reeling after another college closure George Roberts and staff Posted March 22, 2010 12:00:00 | Updated March 22, 2010 14:47:00 International students have gathered at the gates of a private college in Sydney's inner-west.
Federal Environment Minister Malcolm Turnbull says the New South Wales Government should have stopped a proposal to expand the Rose Bay Marina in eastern Sydney.
Siobhan : Heanue) * Photo: Water floods the Riverside Plaza carpark in Queanbeyan, NSW as heavy rains cause rivers to break their banks on December 9, 2010.
Topics: emergency-incidents, hay-2711, wagga-wagga-2650 * Murrumbidgee peaks in Maude Posted March 26, 2012 07:15:42 A long time resident of Maude in the western Riverina says the Murrumbidgee flood peak didn't spread as far as first expected.
Police say the male driver of the other car was taken to hospital as a precaution only.
Topics: business-economics-and-finance, floods, sale-3850, tinamba-3859 * Anxious wait as water surges towards Sale (video) (audio) Posted June 29, 2007 00:27:00 | Updated June 29, 2007 00:42:00 People at Sale and Bairnsdale in Gippsland in eastern Victoria are watching anxiously as local waterways approach major flood levels.
Topics: building-and-construction, industry, woolloongabba-4102 * Work continues on the northern ventilation outlet of the Clem7 tunnel project image image Work continues on the northern ventilation outlet of the Clem7 tunnel project ABC News Posted September 30, 2009 12:07:00 | Updated October 01, 2009 09:41:00 Work continues on the northern ventilation outlet of the Clem7 tunnel project, linking the Brisbane suburbs of Bowen Hills and Woolloongabba, during construction in March 2008.
Topics: floods, sale-3850, orbost-3888 * Video Floods, wind batter eastern Australia ABC News 8min 14sec Posted June 06, 2012 06:00:57 | Updated June 06, 2012 07:12:10 Wild weather has continued to cause havoc across parts of Victoria and New South Wales.
Topics: water, wetlands, federal-government, tea-tree-gully-5091, sa * Arrest made over illegal drug lab Posted June 18, 2010 10:56:00 Adelaide police have found an illegal drug laboratory in a house at Tea Tree Gully.
Topics: pests, federal---state-issues, environmental-management, shepparton-3630, omeo-3898, orbost-3888 * Jobs promise if mine developed south of Tumbarumba Posted July 07, 2011 14:39:00 A mineral used in the renewable energy industry could soon be mined south of Tumbarumba.
Topics: community-and-society, wodonga-3690, mount-beauty-3699, tallangatta-3700 * Flood waters rise in Shepparton area (video) Posted December 10, 2010 07:44:00 | Updated December 10, 2010 14:28:00 Flood waters are rising in the Shepparton area and are expected to isolate homes in the city's south, and cut off roads.
Topics: local-government, bega-2550 * Boil water alert remains for Bemboka Posted March 01, 2010 05:37:00 A boil water alert remains in force today at a New South Wales far south coast town despite good test results.
as Kevin Rudd's hospital tour took in some of Brisbane's facilities.
Police and emergency services have evacuated residents in Victoria's north-east due to concerns that flood waters may overcome barriers and surge into residential areas.
Topics: rail-transport, newcastle-2300, new-lambton-2305 * Ditch 'green shuttle' and boost park-and-ride Posted May 12, 2011 08:42:00 A Newcastle transport advocate says the $500,000 being spent on a free inner-city shuttle bus should instead be put towards increasing bus services that stop at Broadmeadow's park-and-ride station.
Topics: local-government, bemboka-2550 * Bega council lifts boil water alert Posted February 23, 2010 10:00:00 The Bega Valley Council on the far south coast has lifted its boil water alert for parts of the shire, after approval from New South Wales Health.
Topics: water, vegetables, tas, campania-7026 * Fatal accident near Richmond Posted March 01, 2008 15:41:00 A notorious rural road north-east of Hobart has claimed another life.
Topics: law-crime-and-justice, noosa-heads-4567 * Five dead on roads in three days Posted June 18, 2007 08:01:00 Five people have died on Queensland roads in the past three days.
Topics: kimba-5641, port-lincoln-5606 * More protection for SA conservation areas (video) Posted February 02, 2011 11:49:00 | Updated February 02, 2011 12:01:00 The size of Piccaninnie Ponds nature park and two parks on Eyre Peninsula in SA have been increased, to boost protection.
Topics: local-government, australia, lightning-ridge-2834 * Mobile service to improve indigenous eye health Posted May 30, 2011 06:46:00 Western New South Wales has been chosen for a new initiative to improve the eye health of indigenous and remote Australians.
Roads have been transformed into rivers in the tiny town of Innamincka in the state's far north-east.
Topics: fires, dargo-3862, sale-3850 * New pipeline promises better Nowa Nowa water quality Posted December 12, 2007 15:00:00 The Victorian Government and East Gippsland Water have opened a $1.7 million pipeline to improve water quality at Nowa Nowa in the south-east.
Topics: work, states-and-territories, bundaberg-4670 * Tourism group up-beat despite ferry loss Jackson Vernon Posted January 22, 2010 08:41:00 Fraser Coast Tourism says the loss of the Fast Cat Ferry service to Fraser Island, in south-east Queensland, will not have a negative impact on the region's multi-million dollar tourism industry.
Topics: wodonga-3690 * Illegal tobacco ring busted in north-east Victoria Posted February 28, 2008 14:02:00 Police investigations are continuing into the an illegal tobacco operation in north-east Victoria.
The New South Wales president, David Cameron, says it is disappointing it has to close but members of the Wilcannia ICPA will join other areas including Broken Hill.
Topics: urban-development-and-planning, shepparton-3630, wodonga-3690 * Tobacco building sale to boost jobs Posted June 14, 2011 09:36:00 A flour mill consortium from Melbourne has bought the old Tobacco Cooperative building in Myrtleford, in north-east Victoria.
Topics: law-crime-and-justice, vic * Mill transformation to boost jobs Posted March 19, 2010 12:38:00 More than 60 jobs are expected to be created when a timber plant in north-east Victoria is made into Australia's biggest plywood mill.
The Pyrenees Shire is selling 11 blocks of industrial land in the small towns of Avoca and Beaufort.
Only here is it considered normal behaviour to turn right from the left hand lane at traffic lights, roundabouts and basically anywhere there are defined lanes.
He wanted to return home to Australia, but needed his passport, which he had left in a Taliban-run training camp months earlier.
First-time trekker Carol Nader is left breathless by the altitude and the scenery on a hike to Everest Base Camp.
Tripologist Have we left enough time for our transit at Heathrow Airport?
This includes North and East Sydney, and inner city suburbs.
By boat, bike and car, Caroline Gladstone explores the less-travelled islands west and north of Tahiti.
Taste of southern comfort on road to Natchez
View again * Picasso to Warhol exhibition As the only venue in the southern hemisphere to display the works, The Art Gallery of WA offers the unique opportunity to get up close and ...
The walking was easy; steadily uphill on well-made logging paths.
Walk on the left at all times.
Andrew Bain treks into Chilean Patagonia's Torres del Paine National Park to view its glacier, lake and needle-sharp peaks.
Switzerland's hiking trails take you to glacial lakes, deep canyons and thundering waterfalls, writes Sylvia Derrick.
There is something uncanny about the notion of winter sports in the Middle East, even to people who live there, and this leads to some eccentric local customs.
Courtney Trenwith Radioactive material has been successfully removed from the scene of a crash on the Great Northern Highway in Muchea.
Tim Dick is left speechless by the mountain panoramas as he treks into thin air in remote Ladakh.
Lance Richardson discovers diving caves and a beach cabana beyond the bristling high-rise of Cancun.
Peter Needham takes in Bavaria's beer gardens, sleek museums and alpine scenery.
Michael Kessler Michael Kessler finds some peace and quiet away from Majorca's beach, beer and burn brigade.
Asher Judah Comparing barren, rabbit-infested grassland in Melbourne's west to the World Heritage listed Kakadu National Park is akin to calling the Elwood canal the Amazon River.
John Borthwick takes the slow coastal route to Koh Samui, village by village, on flat, smooth, traffic-free roads.
Lagoons surround Bora Bora's motus.
Perched on the middle of the east coast of the South Island, the city of some 400,000 is protected from harsh elements sweeping from the Pacific Ocean by the Banks Peninsula to the east and by the snow-capped southern alps to the west.
Western Australia in spring (from late July to November) boasts one of the greatest floral displays on the planet and all self-respecting patriots should see it before they slip this mortal coil.
Andrew Bain discovers nature trails, huge tides and a tiny community on resort-free Keswick Island.
Ladakh is a haunting, daunting high-altitude desert of stark mountains capped with snow, even in summer.
Condor flying above Colca Canyon, Peru.
On the Dampier Peninsula, Sian Prior discovers eco-tents in pandanus groves and musical royalty.
Kate Edgley joins a meditative 'exploration path' through temples, caves and ancient sites.
Beyond a chic beach-house lodge on Lord Howe Island, Helen Anderson meets a cast of thousands.
Jasper Rees traces the path of history on the 290-kilometre Offa's Dyke trail, marking the border of England and Wales.
Steve Meacham Steve Meacham encounters some unexpected obstacles on Offa's Dyke.
Plane sailing - from the West It's never been safer to fly - as long as you are on planes built in the West, according to the International Air Transport Association, the body that represents 93 per cent of international airlines.
The hills are steep and fertile; even the villages appear to sprout out of the valleys.
There are 500 species among 12,000 plants and trees imported from Asia, South America and Florida.
The wreck of the Batavia looms large as Daniel Scott approaches the remote Houtman Abrolhos islands.
from left) resting at Twin Beaches on Berowra Creek after a 12-kilometre paddle
On back roads from Arequipa to Cuzco, Deborah Telford combines high-altitude cycling with gourmet grazing.
mountain biking through Zealand woodlands.
It's set in 1000 hectares of landscaped parkland where 8000 palms and other trees have been planted, 100 water fountains play, there's a 1.3km-long beach, a 6.4km jogging track, two swimming pools and underground parking for 2500 cars.
from left) the turquoise waters of Bacuit Bay; a lone outpost on the sands of a Palawan beach; the bangka Aurora docks where she pleases.
Joanna Hall tours New Zealand aboard a ship that echoes the grand ocean-going liners of old.
Bikini-clad girls walking on beach, under coconut trees, past beach-front restaurant.
One reason why Christian faith has declined in the West is because of the reliance placed on a literal reading of the testaments.
Former local Julietta Jameson revisits Sydney's beachside suburb of Coogee and plays tourist from a chic vantage point.
This is real desert: gibbers, red soil rich in iron oxide, tough, small bushes fighting for survival, and everywhere brightly coloured flowers.
From a distance, the grey sandstone domes rise like giant pine cones, an architectural marvel amid the palm-dotted landscape.
Lake Pehoe at Torres del Payne National Park.
Geikie Gorge National Park represents part of a barrier reef that skirted the Kimberley coastline 350 million years ago.
The only other people in this remote area are poor fishermen's families - we visit a Caboclo (indigenous and Portuguese mix) village where up to 14 people live in barn-like communal wooden houses on stilts.
Huts on stilts perch above the coral of the turquoise lagoon, hammocks awaiting a lazy siesta and sunset cocktails.
From the grand estate of Otahuna Lodge, Julietta Jameson views the heritage gardens of the Canterbury region.
Max Anderson finds organic sheets in his swag at a high-end bush camp in the Blue Mountains.
Flying frequently throughout the Americas with both US and American Airlines - the service is unbelievably poor - planes rarely on-time, terrible service on board, no entertainment on board - this list goes on.
Cruise the Yasawa Islands to uncover the secret heart and soul of this popular archipelago.
One reason why Christian faith has declined in the West is because of ...
Andrew Bain battles choppy seas and climbs peaks on a cultural trail through the Whitsunday Passage.
The property was in a good street in a good area, with land in short supply.
Riding high past palaces and oak forests, Daniel Scott follows a historic waterway as he cycles from London to Bath.
Ian McKinnon takes in Egypt's best sites on a leisurely river cruise.
For mainstream, big-store shopping, head to the right-angled axis of Wenceslas Square.
In blood-sport country, Penny McDonald casts a line into the calm waters of the River Lyd.
Mangaia island has a labyrinth of ancient caves and tunnels that lead deep below the sea, writes Craig Tansley.
Titanic Memorial Cruise leaves port in Southampton, England
The remote or rural reserves on which many live lack grass, facilities, coaches, nutritionists, physiotherapists, personal trainers, motivators, let alone floodlights or change-rooms.
Daniel Scott explores castles and villages, beaches and forest trails on a cycling loop from Copenhagen.
Due to headwinds travelling west back to Australia, the flight back to Sydney stops via Brisbane.
For a bird's-eye view over the city, climb half-way up the Gothic cathedral's 63-m spire (NZ$5 per adult, a camera will cost a few dollars more) or take a free guided tour inside and admire the beautiful rose window and the wooden-ribbed ceiling.
Lenny Ann Low turns heads on a high-octane drive along country lanes and coastal cliffs.
In the remote wilderness of British Columbia, Guy Wilkinson goes in search of the elusive spirit bear.
tourists walk on Perito Moreno glacier to one of several vantage points to watch hunks of ice breaking into Lake Argentine.
This pyramid-shaped temple is set amid luscious green rice fields and the flatlands make an altogether different picture from the jungle views at the top of Wat.
Acting Prime Minister and Treasurer Wayne Swan and Lauren Ayres walk towards the school during his visit to Hughes Primary School in Canberra.
Near a tunnel cut through a mountain - landslides from earthquakes kept closing the road - are 800-year-old tombs built high on the rock face.
Nigel Richardson boards the paddle-wheel steamboat American Queen for a journey deep into Dixie.
The Douro, Spain and Portugal This beautiful waterway meanders through villages, market towns and past vineyards.
Ewen Bell discovers art-filled laneways, Roman relics and fine dining on the back roads of France.
He is based at Manly, training and doing volunteer lifeguard duty this summer while competing in the city's ocean swimming events.
Mr Reynolds said some local contractors were already paying more than the proposed rates to keep workers from going to work on mines up north or in other states.
The big rambling 1920s timber building is perched on a granite rock, with a view of Bright township far below in the picturesque Ovens Valley.
There was trekking around 7,000 metre high mountains with NO tourists in sight, swimming in lakes, eagle hunting, horse riding across empty mountain plains, fantastic beer gardens in the capital Bishkek and the best jam in the world.
The main roads (particularly the pacific highway) are already overloaded, leading to further congestion and time delay for many more people than the residents of the north shore...
Cockburn Transport employs drivers to transport freight across Australia on journeys that can take more than two weeks.
High in his sedan chair, Ewen Bell makes gentle progress through forests and remote villages.
the Ranger Uranium Mine is close to Kakadu National Park's boundary.
Popular routes include the famous Three Gorges Dam.
Inside the bar, which is 50 metres higher than the Sydney Tower observation deck, you're level with a little more than one-third of the Burj Dubai structure.
Shaney Hudson leaves the canals to explore the salt marshes and remote islands of the Venetian lagoon.
In a win for the 'not-in-my-backyard' brigade, this will see medium and high density housing forced into the least desirable areas for residential development.
The financially troubled Gulf emirate of Dubai has opened the world's tallest building, a glistening concrete, glass and steel pinnacle rising 828 metres out of the desert sands.
On horseback and bicycle, Penny Watson passes volcanoes and thermal springs in the unspoiled heartland of Auvergne.
Courtney Trenwith Police and Perth City Council rangers have again cleared an Aboriginal protest camp at Heirisson Island after a small gropu attempted to re-establish their sit-in.
Kilometres of water slides and a three-storey aquarium - only in Dubai, writes Chris Vedelago.
Ray Kershaw ambles high and low on ancient vineyard trails hugging the Mosel River between Koblenz and Trier.
From music museums to jazz clubs, Christina Pfeiffer explores Prague through its music.
A tourist enters the water at a hot spring near the small village of Agua Brava, more than 4000 meters above sea level, in the Uyuni salt flats, Potosi, Bolivia on October 8, 2009.
Lee Atkinson Bananas and bountiful beaches abound at this north coast holiday favourite, writes Lee Atkinson.
Anne-Louise Brown Karen Scorgie died in the front seat of a car in a Scarborough car park after her first shot of heroin.
Ute Junker Ute Junker savours an ice wine with rock-star connections in the Okanagan Valley.
People who live in Ellenbrook bought cheap land because it's not near anywhere (City, River, Beach) so now we need to build them a railway?
Sharp rise in sea levels to Australia's north: report 2.
Susan Gough Henly delights in the food, wine and gardens of the Macedon region.
With all the fancy resort swimming pools, guests sometimes that forget a world class beach is just on the other side of the walkway.
Further afield from Bora Bora lies a true South Seas paradise of turquoise lagoons and white powdery sands, Rob Woodburn writes.
This is Cambodia's second-largest city and the gateway to the country's rice bowl.
Twenty years after falling in love with the south-west surf, Michael Gordon returns on foot on the Cape to Cape Track.
Spirit Island in Maligne Lake, Jasper National Park,
That start time is seen as more family-friendly for the people of western Sydney, who the club will target at Menangle.
West Australian mines minister Norman Moore has hit back at claims he misled the public about the Varanus Island gas plant explosion by not releasing documents favouring operator Apache Energy.
Winsor Dobbin explores three fine-food destinations in New Zealand, each a quick getaway from the city.
In the Himalayan foothills, Helen Anderson walks among remote villages and rhododendron forests.
Kelsey Munro URBAN AFFAIRS A DECADE of detailed planning for the country's biggest urban renewal project could be overturned, with the consortium developing the key sites in the Green Square Town Centre aiming to increase the...
The Caledonian Canal, Scotland This spectacular waterway in northern Scotland connects the North Atlantic with the North Sea, with highlights including a climb along 'Neptune's Stairway' under the shadow of Ben Nevis.
At a desert pit stop for a billion birds, Deborah Stone discovers an eco-village of geodesic domes and recycled art.
Penny Watson explores a Hong Kong fishing village in whose waters dolphins are still spotted.
Nairobi began its life as a British encampment, a base for the English to complete a rail link from Mombasa, the southern port town and Kenya's one-time capital, to Uganda.
Ben Stubbs discovers jagged headlands, snake trails and Aboriginal tradition on the Yuraygir Coastal Walk.
Financial Services and Superannuation Minister Bill Shorten, addresses the CEDA conference in Canberra.
Concurrently, Malaysia Airlines will focus on the core (Southeast Asia) region, South Asia, greater China and North Asia, where the demand outlook is strong, fuelled by a burgeoning middle class,' the statement said.
On my first morning in the city my guide, Anthony, from Wildlife Safari, suggests we begin at the beginning, exploring the city's rail links at the Nairobi Railway Museum just near the city's central railway station.
Everywhere are stupas, some white, some coloured, at ground level and on hills and peaks, with Buddhist burial grounds on the edges of towns and villages.
Maya ruins by the ocean.
Hedges, fig trees and even a field of sunflowers enclose maze-goers across the state, writes Rachel Sullivan.
There are, it has been estimated, more than 12,000 species of flowering plants scattered across an area of 2.5 million square kilometres stretching from the Pilbara in the north, around the coast to Esperance and inland across the wheat belt as far as Kalgoorlie.
The largest cruise ship ever built, the Oasis of the Seas, arrives at its new home port.
penguins at the Punta Tombo reserve on Argentina's Atlantic coast.
The courtyard around the monumental gnarled tree roots growing around the walls is packed and noisy.
The Amazon, Brazil and Peru Exotic and breathtaking, cruise ships can navigate the lower and central sections as far as Manaus but the narrow and more remote upper Amazon is river-boat territory.
Craig Tansley escapes the suburbs and finds solitude on the remote south-eastern coastline.
She first points out the area where packaging products are made from sugar-palm bark.
In Perth, jaded Murray Street Mall and Forrest Place are prime examples.
Beyond the flat-roofed, mudbrick expanse of the old Silk Road city of Leh, he points out, that distant, long streak of bitumen is the world's highest civilian airport.
The Gulf is an important market for us to continue growing,' said Jane Ewing, Diageo's general manager for the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region.
Spain's Guadalquivir delta region, not far from fashionable Seville, is a magnet for wildlife, writes John Huxley.
Joyce Morgan The meaning of life may well reside in a remote village in the Himalayan region of Ladakh, writes Joyce Morgan.
They show areas of the once-pristine shoal flattened by the hull and deep scraping across the coral bed.
A 'river of steel' crosses wheatfields and deserts alike.
Rania Spooner Police are removing the last remaining activists on board a ship at Fremantle Port this morning, seven hours after the group snuck on board.
People who live in Ellenbrook bought cheap land because it's not near anywhere (City, River, Beach) so now we need to build them a railway?
Tourists enjoy the sun and water at a beach near downtown Punta del Este, Maldonado, 140 km east of Montevideo
Despite the findings, Australian parking rates are more expensive than at most major airports.
It is set on a 1896-square-metre block in Macleay Street with formal, circular 19th-century gardens, in the most densely populated suburb in Australia.
Boat on Lake Argyle, near Kununurra, Western Australia.
Cyclists riding along Rasinovo Embankment of Vltava River, Nove Mesto.
Pavers good, bitumen bad,' became the dominant planning matra, and sterile rectangles of brick emerged in city and town centres around Australia.
Delia Falconer With its dark stands of yucca, large Chinese elm and low walls, the little park next to the El Alamein Fountain is the heart of Kings Cross.
Gary A. Warner In the US, a nation of more than 300 million people, a small county in the Pacific Ocean that's home to just over 155,000 people has nearly a quarter of the country's best beaches.
Kate Gibbs samples bars and restaurants favoured by the locals among Venice's network of canals.
Annie Stevens Annie Stevens finds an ideal base to explore Huskisson and Jervis Bay.
New fast routes are also scheduled to open between Figueres, Spain and Perpignan, France this year, while Italy is continuing to expand its high-speed network with a Rome-Milan service of three-and-a-half hours that runs 18 times a day.
The tower's exterior is glass and steel that would cover 17 soccer fields, and will require six to eight weeks to clean.
Steve McKenna takes an amble in Europe's largest urban green space.
North American college students invade Mexico's beaches despite warnings over gang violence.
Kelsey Munro URBAN AFFAIRS GREEN SQUARE, the inner-city precinct set to absorb more than 40 per cent of new dwellings in the Sydney local government area over the next decade, is finally taking shape.
On Defence Force entertainment tours to the Middle East and the Solomon Islands, I've wondered if
Daniel Scott discovers the Inuit link to the land on a safari to the remote Torngat Mountains.
Alice Veersema 31 with her son Henry Veersema 4 months old from Botany swimming at the Mahon Pool in Maroubra, Sydney.
Clare Barry heads to a seaside town where real-life is better than fiction.
the Ranger Uranium Mine is close to Kakadu National Park's boundary.
This is our third day on the Moselhohenweg, or Mosel Heights Trail, a long-distance track between Koblenz and Trier, often high above the river, sometimes ambling beside it, via forests and vineyards and picture-book villages.
Alice Cairns The rugged Jura country is not where you'd expect to find the best restaurant in France, Alice Cairns writes.
The snow lasts well because resorts are either at high altitude or very far south (benefiting from cold fronts sweeping up from Antarctica).
In a single day of cruising Europe's rivers, it's possible to take in medieval villages with citadels, monasteries, castles and cathedrals, separated by a landscape of stunning mountains and farmers at work herding sheep or picking grapes.
High water levels from March to July make boat travel easier and bring you closer to the animals.
IN THE days when it was just a seaside resort instead of a city suburb, Manly spruiked itself as ''seven miles from Sydney and a thousand miles from care''.
The only other people in this remote area are poor fishermen's families - we visit a Caboclo (indigenous and Portuguese mix) village where up to 14 people live in barn-like communal wooden houses on stilts.
Louise Southerden boards a small ship for a big adventure in the Canadian Arctic.
Colorful traditional houses in the 'Petite france' area and their reflections on the river, Strasbourg, Alsace, France.
There is no equivalent figurehead in the other dominant stream, Theravada, which stretches from South Asia to South-East Asia.
The Nation Blue have left a string of towns and cities across our land in disarray.
The convoy had left London on February 14, running into its fair share of setbacks on its way.
King Pumipon has just left hospital for his palace.
More than 30 delegates from around the world attended the Jerusalem Initiative conference held in occupied East Jerusalem to call for an end to Israel's illegal occupation of the West Bank and Gaza.
It starts with Che disappearing from Cuba in 1965 and Castro reading Che's letter explaining he had left Cuba to spread the revolution.
I've felt the tension of never being able to say the word 'East Timor' in the local language, Tetun, or in Portuguese - for if I said 'Timor Leste' out loud, I know I'd be deported, and any Timorese in my company would be arrested and tortured.
Travel north, turn left at the second roundabout into Freemans Drive, left at Martinsville Rd, then left at Watagan Rd.
Population control measures assume the absolute worst case scenario from the outset - a future world so harsh and so polluted they hold it will become more 'humane' to stop people in the global South from being born at all!
The Greens bill, if passed, would leave the south-west vulnerable to future local governments who might be pro-mining.
Lynas plans to ship ore from its Mount Weld mine in Western Australia, through the port of Fremantle, to Malaysia.
Indonesian police are now searching for Sanjeev 'Alex' Kuhendrarajah, who has left the boat.
Altona's website, however, still promises a "potential water supply to open up the vast northern tracts of South Australia to industry and agriculture.
The bus riders travelled through rural NSW and South Australia to attend the Defending Indigenous Rights: Land, Law, Culture convergence in Alice Springs over July 7-9.
Long before sea level rises swallow towns and cities, small surges of sea levels will push salt water into aquifers, destroying supplies of safe drinking water.
It is much lower in poorer provinces of the central and northern highlands.
High-tech forest protest launched high in Tasmania's treetops
Under the agreement, a referendum on independence will be held in the south in January 2011.
In recent months, the PRP has initiated a number of joint statements from left groups across the Asia-Pacific region on common struggles.
Operating on the Anangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara Lands in the far north-west of South Australia, this health service has a sustained national reputation for best practice clinical services, leading edge collaborative program research and development and for the collection of outcome data as a basis for ongoing evaluation.
He said gas extraction poses real risks for communities throughout the Heathcote electorate, a seat that spans from southern Sydney to the northern Illawarra.
and 'From north to south, east to west, we'll take on this struggle, no matter what it costs!
During a 10-day tour of NSW, Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia in early February, Terry Boehm, vice-president of Canada's National Farmers Union, and Arnold Taylor, president of the Canadian Organic Growers association, warned Australian farmers against adopting genetically modified (GM) crops.
But the process of internal migration by Aymaras and Quechas indigenous campesinos seeking land in the east (commonly referred to as "colonisers"), has steady increased their numbers in the lowland.
Other programs work to reach out to more remote areas.
Further, Woodside will need an airport, port, roads and pipelines to support a gas plant, industrialising large parts of pristine wilderness.
Environmental activists, excluded from the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation's May 27-30 energy summit, erected a large inflatable cooling tower outside the fenced-off security zone surrounding Darwin's Parliament House.
In response to the killings, thousands of people in Belfast and other centres across the north joined demonstrations for peace that were organised by the trade union movement on March 10.
Large countries with limited farmland are now part of a global land rush, buying up good agricultural land in Africa, Latin America and the Asia-Pacific region.
Incitec Pivot, Impact Fertilisers and CSBP all import phosphate sourced from Western Sahara into Australia.
The group, which included teachers, students, tradespeople, social workers, as well as teenagers and children, had requested to fly kites and play cricket with the 55 children held in Leonora detention centre.
Wednesday, February 1, 2012 The Tamar Valley from Brady's lookout, near Launceston, Tasmania.
If you go to the south of Iraq, especially Basra City, many, many people have got cancer.
Marches from across Cairo began flooding into Tahrir Square hours before the publicised start time.
SECPRO vehicles have already been used to crush protests in Europe, Africa, the Americas, Asia and the Middle East.
The Greens NSW environment spokesperson Cate Faehrmann explained the scale of ESG's proposal: "The proposed gas field development area covers approximately 85,000 hectares and includes Pilliga East State Forest, Bibblewindi State Forest, Jacks Creek State Forest, and Pilliga East State Conservation Area, plus some small areas of Crown Land and private land.
City is Ours has also recently organised a public meeting and a protest against rooming house evictions outside Moreland Council's offices.
The Socialist Alliance condemns the Israeli massacre in the Gaza strip, which has left at least 500 people dead and 2000 more injured.
It notes that the people of Havana spontaneously began to plant food crops in parks, patios, balconies, roof tops, vacant land sites - everywhere they could.
Federal Liberal/National Coalition leader Tony Abbott left Normanton, in far north Queensland's gulf country, on November 10, having failed to win Aboriginal elders' backing for his bill to repeal Queensland's Wild Rivers legislation.
South Australia's Climate Camp will be held over September 24-27 and the target will be Northern and Playford B plants, two brown coal-fired power plants near Port Augusta.
He also spoke on the struggle to reunify the six counties in Ireland's north still controlled by Britain with the 26 counties that make up the southern state.
Myself and eight other people were arrested at the gates to Swan Island defence intelligence training base near Queenscliff in Victoria on June 16.
Some commentators believe the LTTE will continue as a guerrilla force (small-scale attacks are continuing in the east, which the government has claimed to fully control for the past two years).
Local ecologist Chris McLean has identified five woodland areas that are of high conservation value near Awaba, Blackalls Park, Eraring, Toronto and Wyee.
Solidarity and support is needed to help with the impact of the devastating floods that swept through Queensland and other states in January, and Cyclone Yasi that hit northern Queensland in early February.
Sunday, January 23, 2011 By Brisbane Flood waters in Rosalie, Brisbane.
The debt crisis faced by developing countries has moved to the North.
Public investment brought the University of Wales, good public transport to the capital Cardiff and town of Bridgend.
Nine-hundred-and-thirty manufacturing workers will soon be out of a job, after management announced the pending closure of the Tonsley Park Mitsubishi car plant in Adelaide's southern suburbs on February 6.
George Bush arrived this week from the Green Zone in Baghdad to the Green Zone in Sydney', US Iraq war veteran Matt Howard told the crowd.
The National Snow and Ice Date Center said on March 23: "On March 7, 2011, Arctic sea ice likely reached its maximum extent for the year, at 14.64 million square kilometers (5.65 million square miles).
Six hundred students from more than a dozen high schools and colleges walked out of school and gathered at Parliament House lawns in Hobart on November 1 to protest against Gunns' pulp mill.
SYDNEY- NSW Premier Nathan Rees and Transport Minister David Campbell had to flee an angry group of rail unionists at a scheduled press conference at Central Station on August 6.
Melting icecaps would likely cause sea level rises more than one metre during this century alone.
Since then the oil has spread through an area known as a marine wildlife super-highway, now covering thousands of square kilometres of turtle, whale, dolphin and fish habitat.
This drinking water catchment feeds 4.3 million people, so southern Sydney, the Illawarra, the Southern Highlands - that's where they want to draw this contaminated water out of the ground.
Diameter of the Bomb - The story of one suicide attack in the Middle East from many different angles.
It may cost tens of millions of dollars to transfer water from Malabar sewerage treatment plant to Warragamba (Sydney's water supply).
The Dalloul dairy is located in southern Gaza City, far from the Gaza-Israel boundary.
Department of Foreign Affairs travel advice very clearly says: do not travel to the north and do not travel to the east.
At Lake Liddell Recreation Area, next to Bayswater Power Station, 16km east of Muswellbrook.
It is a narrow 14-square kilometre area of sandy coastal land in Sri Lanka's northern Vanni region.
The pipeline would traverse the territories of 50 indigenous peoples in British Columbia and Alberta, as well as 700 rivers, streams and lakes.
People power came to Gunnedah in north-west NSW on September 15 as more than 300 farmers and their supporters rallied outside the Gunnedah Basin Coal Conference.
Swimming pools, well-watered lawns and large irrigated farms in Israeli settlements in the Occupied Territories stand in stark contrast next to Palestinian villages whose inhabitants struggle even to meet their essential domestic water needs.
More than 200 people took to Adelaide's streets on March 26 in the first March for Survival.
Andrew McWilliams's chapter looks at issues of traditional land ownership in an eastern part of East Timor and the creation of East Timor's largest and most significant national park and conservation reserve, Nino Konis Santana National Park.
Current government policy gives priority to cars and road transport, and freeway and highway construction is planned for the major traffic corridors of the city.
The heatwave across south-eastern Australia in recent weeks has given a hint of what we can expect as global temperatures continue to rise: black-outs, fatalities and transport chaos as privatised infrastructure fails.
Boost investment in public transport, suburban, regional and inter-regional services, high-speed intercity rail and rail freight.
In recognition of this impending disaster, teachers at many schools have taken industrial action, including at Karabar High, Tumut High, Braidwood Central School, Stewart House School and Bradfordville Public School.
High school students in the capital, Madison, walked out of school in protest the same day - the second straight day of student strikes in the city.
No expansion: Abandon plans to expand income management into five new "trial sites" across Australia - Bankstown, Rockhampton, Shepparton, Logan and Playford.
Campus branch meetings will be occurring across the country over the coming weeks, along with city-wide meetings of NTEU members.
The national spotlight has mostly focused on a proposal to build a resort and marina at Maud's Landing alongside the world heritage rated Ningaloo Reef Marine Park.
Water baseline surveys in the Surat Basin show some 80% of water bores have flamable gas BEFORE any industry arrived.
Today, almost 50 activists have taken action at four sites across Australia to protest Harvey Norman's sale of wood products sourced from native forest destruction.
Indigenous and other communities in the gas fields oppose the gas wells and any processing plants.
The group discussed two main options: return to Martin Place or move to Wynyard Park, near Wynyard station.
On October 30,100 people rallied at Victoria's parliament house against the federal government's failure to support Solar Systems before its administration deadline expired.
I first glimpsed her in a 1950s Colonial Office film about the Chagos Islanders, a tiny creole nation living midway between Africa and Asia in the Indian Ocean.
Keneally said: "This mine is simply not compatible with the unique rural characteristics of this locality, including the horse-breeding industry.
This was seen as essential in nurturing social movements that could help counteract the attempts by the right-wing opposition, centred in the east, to overthrow his government.
The ruling class gathers for 'recreation' at venues like the Melbourne Cricket Club or Perth's Weld Club.
Once the police evicted people from the square, all Occupy Melbourne protesters united to occupy the Collins Street and Swanston Street intersection.
Industrial farming based on fossil-fuel fertilisers, pesticides and fuels must end, and farming areas restricted to ensure that riverine, forest and other indigenous ecosystems return to healthy states.
In other Cuban towns and cities, urban gardens produce 80% to more than 100% of what they need, according to the Diary.
Potosi, the fabulous city of silver in Bolivia, was, by the mid-17th century, one of the worlds largest cities, with metal-bedecked cathedrals and streets made of silver.
The letter asked O'Farrell to ban coal seam gas mining in important water catchment areas that supply much of the drinking water for Sydney and Wollongong.
In the early hours of Thursday morning, a king tide met with a Brisbane River already-swollen with water released from Brisbane's Wivenhoe Dam, which had reached 190% capacity.
The service cuts mean the Altona Loop will lose direct access to the city loop and all of its express trains.
In Asia, more than a billion people populate river basins that draw melt-water from the Himalayan-Hindu Kush ice sheet during the dry season, yet it is expected that the ice sheet could be effectively gone by mid-century.
Look closely at inner-city schools, on balconies and in tiny front- and back-yards today and you'll often spot the odd corn, tomato and strawberry plants growing together.
More than 100 people rallied outside the South Australian Parliament on March 25 in solidarity with the people of the Middle East.
Many have little real ability to travel long distances to work due to poor public transport services, especially at night.
The boat was under Australian surveillance but was allowed to sink in international waters killing 353 people.
Students from more than 20 high schools, including Mosman High, Pennant Hills High and North Sydney Girls High, have pledged to walk out of classes to protest Australia's involvement in the Iraq war, to call for genuine action against climate change and to defend the right to protest.
The convergence will highlight the ecological destruction and pollution of the beautiful Shoalwater Bay, a pristine national treasure of 400,000 hectares, which comprises hundreds of kilometres of coral coast, beaches, bays, harbour wetlands and islands.
In general, Aboriginal land in town camps has increased in value as the towns increase in size and suburbia surrounds camps that were once on the edges of towns.
Spies were planted everywhere, including in shopping malls and sports clubs to monitor public sentiment.
In other areas, a crackdown on local logging means China now helps to deplete the world's forests as the world's second biggest timber importer.
Go west to experience Africa's jewel May 18 2012 at 18:04
Turn left at the library, then right at the pub April 29 2012 at 11:57
The four-star lodge is on a peninsula between the Indian Ocean and the Guvoru River estuary.
The Sardine-Run Expedition will be going straight past Oceana Beach & Wildlife Reserve in June.
A luxurious haven in South Africa's Eastern Cape, Oceana Beach and Wildlife Reserve is the only combined ocean and game reserve in Southern Africa.
Relax in the comfort of the exclusive Alpine Heath Resort, nestled in the picturesque Northern Drakensberg Mountains.
Read Story 0 comments This natural water-filtration plant feeds the swimming pool at CapeNatures new Oudebosch development in the Palmiet valley.
Read Story 2 comments Workers install solar thermal collectors on the roof of a building at the United World College of South East Asia (UWCSEA) East Campus in Singapore.
Spain has rejected Peruvian claim to a huge treasure recovered from the wreck of a ship that left from Lima's port more than 200 years ago.
Read Story 0 comments File photo: Children stand on a giant sand castle built on Weymouth beach to mark 100 days to go to the London 2012 Olympic Games.
The Lower Zambezi Valley is one of Africa's last remaining true wilderness areas where wildlife roams freely in and around safari camps.
Steeped in history, this private game reserve is situated on majestic landscape, once the hunting grounds of the mighty King Shaka.
Read Story 0 comments A giant 'GMO-Free Zone' banner is displayed at the world famous Ifugao Rice Terraces.
Cape Town mayco member for safety and security JP Smith, left, head of transport and network development Sean Glass, right, and the citys area west deputy traffic chief Paul Oliver, centre, discuss the expansion of traffic islands.
Creating mobile protection areas monitored by satellite would enable some of the world's most endangered species to recover, says a marine expert.
Watch video 0 comments Imbali Safari Lodge is 35km from the park's Orpen Gate.
Read Story 0 comments A fishing boat makes its way out to sea past the garden of a holiday cottage, at the port village of Polperro, Cornwall.
Read Story 0 comments Aliwal Shoal is on the South Coast of KwaZulu Natal and is known for sightings of ragged tooth sharks, cold water fish and warm water reef fish.
Read Story 0 comments More than 10,000 migrating birds have died from an avian cholera outbreak blamed on reduced water flows through vast marshlands of southern Oregon.
Read Story 0 comments From the lofty tower of the Renaissance garden are gorgeous, tower-dotted and timeless views of Verona.
Read Story 0 comments OCEAN ATTRACTION: A shark passes a shark cage tour boat near Gansbaai, the hub of this multimillion-rand marine tourist attraction.
This summer the glittering waters off Weymouth will host Britain's Olympic sailing events.
Read Story 22 comments Palm trees line the man-made beach known as South Bank beach in Brisbane.
Water levels in Britain's rivers, lakes, ponds and wetlands are so low - and getting lower - that a whole series of species may be unable to breed.
The Antarctic Ocean Alliance says waters surrounding the remote frozen continent are facing increased exploitation as fish stocks elsewhere in the world continue to decline.
Read Story 0 comments A complete skeleton of a stone age male his archaeological research team had unearthed from a tiny Taiwan-controlled islet , Liang Island off China.
Read Story 0 comments File photo: Wildlife officials plan to release the bear somewhere in the Ozark Mountains.
CASCADES: View of the river cascading from lake to lake at Plitvice.
Low-cost airline plans to establish new routes across Africa, writes Audrey D'Angelo.
Read Story 0 comments Baby Northern River Terrapin turtles are held over an artificially created beach in Bhawal National Park 40km north of Dhaka.
Read Story 0 comments Rakhine Buddhist monks pray for peace at the Sule pagoda in central Yangon.
Read Story 0 comments Buck grazing in front of thatched buildings outside Zebula Golf Estate.
Read Story 0 comments Many artifacts and 24 medieval and 7th century burial sites were found in the same area as a Roman limestone sarcophagus containing a headless skeleton dating from around 410 AD.
Marchelle Abrahams heads for Durbanville Hills and Cassia Restaurant on a cold winter's night.
The tourism industry should harness the power of social media to attract more tourists to the Western Cape, says Tourism MEC Alan Winde.
Researchers from Germany and Japan are sending high-tech vehicles to probe the seabed off Japan's coast.
Angel Paz's "Peace of the Birds" refuge has already attracted ornithologists and bird-watching enthusiasts from around the globe.
Catching these small raptors is difficult, requiring the use of high-altitude mist nets that sit 10m above ground.
Read Story 0 comments The Rocket Garden at the Kennedy Space Center Visitor Complex near Cape Canaveral, Florida.
At the foothills of the magnificent Central/Northern "Berg" is a farm-style country retreat set in 40 hectares of wooded countryside.
Read Story 0 comments Gold coins found hidden in a ceramic jug are displayed at the Arsuf cliff-top coastal ruins.
Read Story 0 comments The replica of explorer John Cabot's ship, Matthew, passes by a giant iceberg, about two miles outside St. John's.
Read Story 0 comments Garth Johnstone and Gary Harris enjoy the view from Umzolozolo Safari Lodge's rim-flow pool.
Read Story 0 comments File photo: A Christian pilgrim is carried out of the water after being baptised in the Jordan River near the northern Israeli city of Tiberias.
Research suggests that a build-up of carbon dioxide in the soil will force an increase of tree cover throughout Africa.
Read Story 0 comments The Costa Allegra cruise ship arrives at Mahe port in Seychelles Island.
Read Story 0 comments Just another day in paradise for an African penguin at Boulders Beach, Simons Town.
Read Story 0 comments Gorgeous: Poplar trees flourish on the barren banks of a river near Rhodes.
Read Story 0 comments Bird watchers sit waiting for the arrival of barn swallows at a wetland area on the outskirts of Durban.
A piece of the Great Barrier Reef has been put on ice in the arid plains fringing Australia's desert centre.
Read Story 0 comments STUNNING SETTING: Bovlei wine estate lies in the shadow of the Hawequa mountains.
Read Story 0 comments The Seychelles, a magical scattering of 115 islands in the Indian Ocean with pristine white-sand beaches, are many people's first choice for castaway seclusion.
Open landscape stretching out to the horizon and endless, flat roads make the Karoo road-trip heaven.
Read Story 0 comments Bleak House perched on the cliffs at Broadstairs, Kent, where Charles Dickens spent many summers and autumns and wrote most of David Copperfield.
Read Story 0 comments Kuriftu Lake and resort luxury on the banks, but on the lake Ethiopia's poverty shows.
Read Story 0 comments File picture - Children play on toxic soil at Tudor Shaft in Krugersdorp.
Read Story 0 comments Australia will create the largest network of marine parks in the world, protecting waters covering an area as large as India while banning oil and gas exploration and limiting commercial fishing in some of the most sensitive areas.
Read Story 1 comments A passenger looks at a flight departure information board in a terminal at Charles de Gaulle Airport in Roissy, near Paris.
The Philippines' ancient rice terraces, carved into mountains like giant green stairs, have been removed from a UN list of endangered world heritage sites.
At 3,350 metres, Etna is Europe's tallest and most active volcano.
Read Story 0 comments A visitor walks on a replica of French painter Claude Monet's Japanese footbridge arching over a water lily pool encircled by willow trees and flowering shrubs at his house in Giverny during Monet's Garden exhibition.
Read Story 0 comments Harmony Gold must continue paying for pumping and treating acid mine water in and around the Orkney gold mine, the High Court in Pretoria ruled on Monday.
Read Story 0 comments Shigeyoshi Osaki playing a violin which has strings made of spider silk at his laboratory in Kashihara city in Nara prefecture, western Japan.
The outlook for the world's travel industry remains good despite the uncertain economic situation in Europe and around the world.
Archeologists have uncovered a 1,600-year-old Mayan temple dedicated to the "night sun" atop a pyramid tomb in the northern Guatemalan forest.
The icy cold 'white gold' of the Lesotho highlands is a vital component in the growing trout industry, writes John Yeld.
Read Story 0 comments One of the many teahouses along the main hiking trail to Everest base camp.
Read Story 0 comments The famous Piazza Venezia in downtown Rome.
Read Story 0 comments The world's cities are currently on track to occupy an extra 1.5 million square kilometres by 2030 - equivalent to France, Germany and Spain combined.
Cape Town authorities plan to erect solid islands along Nelson Mandela Boulevard.
Away from the busy settlement near the jetty, where ferries land, it is kilometre after kilometre of white sand beaches (63, to be precise), rocky cliffs, aquamarine water and bays dotted with yachts.
Read Story 0 comments A view of one of the new petunias flower gardens at Palitine Hill in Rome.
Set on the banks of Lake St Lucia, the heart of Africa's largest natural estuary, it is secluded, tranquil and the only privately owned lodge within iSimangaliso Wetland Park World Heritage Site.
Read Story 0 comments The Alaskan birds spent the winter in Africa before returning back home.
Adrian Rorvik finds out why Amakhala Game Reserve was recently voted the best game reserve in the Eastern Cape.
An endangered western Pacific gray whale tracked from Russia to Alaska and along the West Coast to Baja Mexico is on the move again.
Montusi Mountain Lodge is the only four-star lodge in the northern Drakensberg mountains that offers superb views of the magnificent Amphitheatre.
Adrian Rorvik stays in a Durban hot spot.
Read Story 0 comments BOUNTY: Mountain Apple Blossoms coat the ground along the Makiki Trail in Oahu, where the trails are among the best places to encounter an abundance of nature with very little effort.
The Five Bays trail is a gentle hike hugging long, empty beaches of sun, sea, surf and blue skies along the West Coast between the fishing villages of Paternoster and Jacobsbaai.
BAY VIEW: A cable car climbs Powell Street as it approaches California Street in San Francisco.
In the Champagne Valley you'll find a number of leading hotels and resorts, such as the Nest Drakensberg Mountain Resort Hotel.
Read Story 0 comments A cyclist pedals his bicycle along a snow-covered path in a garden near the Eiffel Tower.
Discover Africa gives their top choice for SA. Read Story 0 comments The views over the manor gardens, polo fields and surrounding mountains are exquisite, as is the food.
Read Story 0 comments Amateur treasure hunter Terry Herbert was prowling English farmland in Staffordshire, England, with a metal detector when he stumbled upon what has been described as the largest Anglo-Saxon treasure ever discovered.
On the wall of a tiny structure buried under forest debris in Guatemala, archaeologists have discovered a scribe's notes about the Maya lunar calendar.
Read Story 0 comments Swiss Raphal Domjan, initiator and expedition leader of PlanetSolar catamaran, the first boat around the world with solar energy.
Forest fires in northeast Spain kill ...
Read Story 0 comments One of the 14 stone carvings that were found in the archaeological area of the Templo Mayor in Mexico City's main square.
Read Story 0 comments Visitors can enjoy cycling on the growing network of paths, or a stroll in the massive La Carolina park or the Parque Metropolitano, a eucalyptus forest overlooking the city.
Read Story 0 comments File photo: The giant Galapagos tortoise known as George lifts his head up during a walk in his protected home in the island chain.
Read Story 0 comments Polar bears are capable of swimming vast distances, a potential survival skill needed in an Arctic environment where summer sea ice is vanishing.
Read Story 0 comments Tourists are seen on a pontoon during sunset at a beach in northern town of Pula.
Read Story 0 comments The research, which examined sediment core samples taken from salt marshes in southern Australia's Tasmania island, used geochemistry to establish a chronology of sea level changes over the past 200 years.
Read Story 1 comments World cultures keeper Henrietta Lidchi poses for a photograph looking at a coffin of Ankhhor during a media viewing of the 'Fascinating Mummies' exhibition at the National Museum of Scotland in Edinburgh.
About 2 000 mourners are expected to attend the official government funeral service for Khomani San leader Dawid Kruiper in the remote Northern Cape on Saturday morning, June 29, 2012.
This year the main celebrations of Youth Day will be held Port Elizabeth, Eastern Cape, at the Wolfson Stadium.
Africa is now connected to Europe, North America and Asia through nine undersea cables.
The Relay will travel through the following communities: Oxford, Abingdon, Wallingford, Crowmarsh Gifford, Nettlebed, Henley-on-Thames, Bisham Abbey, Maidenhead, Burnham, Slough, Windsor, Egham, Ascot, Bracknell and Reading.
Blast rocks Egypt's gas pipeline to Israel, Jordan
There is a large media contingent outside the court building, with the parking area cordoned-off since early this morning, reserved for police vehicles.
It is a radio quiet region, being in a remote area with sparse population and no economic activity other than low density farming.
We have also prioritized sites such as the Winnie Mandela house in Brandfort, the Dr. James Moroka house in Thaba Nchu and the Bram Fischer house in Westdene," says Zuma.
Security has been stepped up at the trial of the man dubbed the 'Sunday Rapist' at the Palm Ridge Magistrates Court, on Gauteng's East Rand.
Schools in the townships were ill-equipped with no facilities such as science laboratories, libraries and sports fields.
Surely we can do more to improve access to ICT by ensuring more connectivity to local schools, libraries, science centres, health centres, in both urban and rural areas.
We are doing this because the production of future Olympic gold medalists must start in our schools, including the disadvantaged schools in predominantly black residential areas in urban and rural areas," he said.
President Jacob Zuma will be in the Eastern Cape this morning as part of his flagship rural development campaign.
The accident happened on the Cradock/Graaff-Reinet road when the vehicles collided head-on.
Water scarcity, poor water quality and inadequate sanitation negatively impact food security, livelihood choices and educational opportunities for poor families across the world.
The African National Congress will hold its fourth policy conference at Gallagher Estate, Midrand between the 26th and 29th of June 2012.
The bus was traveling from Cape Town to Mthatha and the school bus from Cradock for a sports event at Graaff-Reinet.
Glyn spoke to Kapelianis from Kruiper's farm, Witdraai, in the remote and windy Kalahari Desert.
President Jacob Zuma arrives in Rio de Janeiro.
Signs left beside flowers around the Oslo cathedral and the bombed government building repeated one after the other what has become Norway's battle cry in the past year: 'If one man can create so much hatred, imagine how much love we can create together.
In the northern city of Kirkuk, two car bombs exploded near a police headquarters, killing nine people and wounding 42, police and health sources said.
Holmes was being held in solitary confinement at a Denver-area county detention facility and was not cooperating with authorities, Aurora police chief Dan Oates said.
The surrounding neighbourhood on the southern tip of Manhattan is resurrecting itself too.
Video released by activists showed armoured vehicles and troops in combat gear deployed on the Damascus to Amman highway, clearing blocked roads leading to the international route.
Lindy Chamberlain-Creighton arrives at Darwin's coroners court.
Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Paul Hirschson said all of the wounded had left the hospital for the airport, some of them on stretchers.
The rain Saturday night knocked down trees in Beijing and trapped cars and buses in waist-deep water in some areas.
Italy's 40-storey Palazzo Lombardia in Milan was named the Best Tall Building Europe.
Ten years after the 9/11 attacks destroyed the World Trade Center, an 80-story glass and steel tower is rising like a phoenix from the ashes of ground zero.
Residents watch as sediment-laden flood water gushes through the Xiaolangdi Dam on the Yellow River in China's Luoyang.
Howard then attended a memorial service at the National Cathedral in Washington, and spoke by telephone to then Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan about the market implications of the attacks.
Singer Cliff Richard performs during the Diamond Jubilee concert in front of Buckingham Palace in London.
TENSIONS IN THE GULF: The US navy supply ship USNS Rappahannock shot at an approaching fishing boat off the United Arab Emirates, killing one Indian national and injuring three others.
Michael Chamberlain and Lindy Chamberlain arrive at Alice Springs court in 1982.
Flight crews quickly filled Gander's hotels, so passengers were taken to schools, fire stations, church halls.
The Queen with Prince Philip, Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall and Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, aboard the Spirit of Chartwell during the Diamond Jubilee River Pageant on the River Thames, in London.
The first detonated in a car in a parking lot, the second in another car as police arrived at the scene, and a third at the town's police station, the police sources said.
A Port Authority police officer shares a light moment with children visiting from France at commuter train station near ground zero in New York.
A roadside bomb exploded near a passenger bus elsewhere in the northwest Saturday, killing three people, said police officer Zahir Shah.
Hijacked United Airlines Flight 175 flies toward the World Trade Center twin towers shortly before crashes into the south tower, left, as the north tower burns following an earlier attack.
And car bombs planted in a busy trading street in Najaf, 160km south of Baghdad, killed four people and wounded 28, Interior Ministry sources said.
Last updated 10:12 18/07/2012 TENSIONS IN THE GULF: The US navy supply ship USNS Rappahannock shot at an approaching fishing boat off the United Arab Emirates, killing one Indian national and injuring three others.
In Madrid, they planted 10 American oak trees in a park, led by a prince.
An ominous cloud of smoke from the Waldo Canyon Fire rises behind the Air Force Academy's Cadet Chapel.
More than 30 bombs struck cities and towns across Iraq overnight, killing at least 52 people and wounding about 250, despite a massive security clampdown ahead of next week's Arab League summit in Baghdad.
Australian Federal Police and NSW police were called out and a section of the domestic airport car park was cordoned off while the devices were investigated.
Christian, who was living on a yacht alone, left behind several children who live in Australia and New Zealand,' Kernot said.
Construction also continues next door on 1 World Trade Centre, still called by many the Freedom Tower, which is more than 80 stories high so far and will be the nation's tallest building at 541 metres.
In New York, Washington and Shanksville, Pennsylvania, sombre ceremonies will mark the sites where the four hijacked planes brought fiery deaths to so many.
Students of Special Military School of Saint-Cyr mark the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks on the United States at Trocadero square near the Eiffel Tower in Paris.
Local media showed pictures of helicopters landing on the road - the main highway linking Johannesburg to Mozambique - in order to airlift the injured to hospital.
Police in Nepal say a bus veered off a highway and plunged into a river, killing at least nine people and injuring 18 more.
Internet video showed people in convoys of cars and motorbikes honking their horns and firing weapons in the air in the northeastern Idlib province, along with Aleppo in the north, Daraa in the south and Homs in central Syria.
SEPT 11, 2001: Hijacked United Airlines Flight 175 flies toward the World Trade Center twin towers shortly before crashes into the south tower, left, as the north tower burns following an earlier attack.
A memorial featuring waterfalls cascading into the footprints of the twin towers will open to the public on September 12, a day after families see their loved ones' names around the pools for the first time.
Suicide bomber kills nine in Pakistan World first: Gorillas take fight to poachers Ferry sinks off Zanzibar, 24 dead Libyan Olympic President abducted near Tripoli Woman elected Africa Union head Tourists kidnapped in Egypt
At the south tower pool, an acre in area and 10 metres deep, Mary Dwyer, of Brooklyn, remembered her sister, Lucy Fishman, who worked for Aon Corp.
Singer Annie Lennox performs during the Diamond Jubilee concert in front of Buckingham Palace in London.
Demonstrators march down Michigan Avenue during an anti-Nato protest march in Chicago.
US Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke arrives for a news conference at the Federal Reserve in Washington.
Mohammed Anwar, a police officer in the city of Khanewal in the eastern Punjab province, said the child was born Thursday at a hospital in the nearby town of Kacha Khoh.
Hundreds of trees will surround the enormous, man-made waterfalls filling the one-acre squares where the twin towers stood.
The shooting happened Monday afternoon (local time) when a boat rapidly approached the refuelling ship USNS Rappahannock about 16km off Dubai's Jebel Ali port, according to the navy.
The Air Force staff sergeant was a reservist on active duty at Buckley Air Base a few miles from the theatre, serving as a cyber systems operator with the 310 Force Support Squadron, the Air Force said.
Car bombs in two towns south of Baghdad and in the Iraqi city of Najaf have killed 20 people.
The Queen waves from on-board the Spirit of Chartwell, as it approaches Westminster Bridge during her Diamond Jubilee Pageant.
The New York memorial includes two plazas in the shape of the footprints of the twin towers with cascading 10-metre waterfalls.
On Monday (today, NZ time) it was a place of serenity - an expanse of trees and water in the middle of a bustling city - as the 9/11 memorial opened to the public.
Farther north, bombs planted in five towns around Kirkuk and in the oil-rich city itself, killed nine, officials said.
New office towers, meanwhile, are rising rapidly to the memorial's north and east.
The 29-storey Al Bahar Towers in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
Donald James McIntyre, a Port Authority police officer who died as he tried to make his way to the 84th floor of the south tower, will be listed next to his cousin John Anthony Sherry, who worked there.
Police spokesman Joseph Mabusa said it appeared the truck driver had miscalculated when crossing the track, leaving his vehicle directly in the path of a freight train carrying coal to neighbouring Mozambique.
A car bomb ripped through a shopping street early on Friday in the small town of Sungai Kolok, in the southernmost province of Narathiwat which borders Malaysia, wounding three people and destroying several shops.
Britain's Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge waves a Union Flag as she sits alongside her husband Prince William and Prince Harry (right) during the Diamond Jubilee concert in front of Buckingham Palace in London.
Ocean acidification poses a serious threat to coral reefs and marine life, but nowhere worse than in the Pacific Islands.
After that, we headed north again on Highway 191, towards Alpine and Luna Lake.
From the trailhead, the trail drops to the west into Houston Brothers Canyon.
From there, we went west on Utah Highway 9, which goes through the Zion tunnel and into the park.
From the intersection of US 89 and SR 69 go south on Gurley Street to Mount Vernon Avenue.
Continue south on Calvary Trail to its junction with Dutchman #104 (8.2 miles).
Drive north on 128th street until the road ends.
I went looking for it, and lucky for us, I found it right where he had left it: on a rock at the trail junction.
Turn left onto the Dutchman Trail and begin the long descent into Miners Canyon.
Turn north in Mc Nary on the road to Vernon.
From there, we continued north on Old Highway 80 to return to Arlington, where we stopped at the Desert Rose bar for a beer, as tradition dictates.
The first quarter of a mile was a downhill descent, over rocky terrain, towards Houston Draw.
To get there, we took SR 87 north through Payson, Pine and Strawberry to the Mogollon Rim.
only to find, once we reached the next trail junction, that we had never left the trail in the first place!
To get to the Fred Haught Trail, we took SR 87 north through Payson, Pine, and Strawberry, to the Mogollon Rim.
Turn North (right) on Grove Avenue.
Or, we could take the northern route along Highway 340, through the mountains and the villages, along a rough - and sometimes unpaved - road that was often only one lane wide; the trip would take us about two hours.
Follow the road for another quarter mile and the trail heads left down into a small meadow and resumes its single-track profile.
After 1.4 miles turn left onto Calvary Trail #239.
Turn left onto the Bluff Springs Trail.
Turn left onto Lockett Meadow/Schultz Pass Road - this is the road marked 'Forest Access Road', located directly across the divided highway from the turnoff to Sunset Crater National Monument.
Our walk took us north on King Street, to Lamboll Street, then to Legare, and finally to Broad Street, one of the main thoroughfares in the historic district of Charleston.
From there, we continued east on SR 260 through Eager and Springerville; then, we turned south on US 191 through Alpine towards Hannagen Meadow.
The trail heads east along a plateau towards an unnamed drainage.
On Saturday morning, bright an early, we left the house and took I-10 west to Salome Road.
After that, we continued driving north until we came to the junction with I-40, on the outskirts of Flagstaff.
In Winkelman, at the Texaco Station, we turned right onto SR 77 (the route that becomes Oracle Road in Tucson) and went south until we came to Aravaipa Road.
To get to Kartchner Caverns from Tucson, we took I-10 East towards the town of Benson, at the junction of SR 90.
We decided to avoid Rainbow Row, as there wasn't a place to park and it looked to be too crowded; instead, we continued south on Bay Street until we found a good place to park near a park.
Then, at the junction with US 60, we turned right and continued south until we came to Forest Road 300 - just before the White Mountain Apache reservation boundary.
As we left the resort, we walked south on Collier Boulevard, towards the southern tip of the island.
Once on the interstate, we drove west until we came to exit 144 - the Vekol Valley exit - where we left the freeway and turned left.
Turn left (west) on Fossil Springs Road.
From the valley, we drove north on Scottsdale Road until it became Tom Darlington Road, as we entered Carefree.
Shortly after that stop, we arrived at Kipahulu, where we passed by the southern entrance to Haleakala National Park.
We took this highway all the way to FR 81, which is off to the left about nine miles north of the junction.
To complete the Inner Basin Loop, turn left at the Watershed Cabins and cross the creek to access FR 146.
Stay left on the Fossil Spring Trail and follow it west until it crosses Fossil Creek.
miles where the trail turns left (watch those cairns!
To get to the Lava Flow Trail, we took I-10 south towards Maricopa Road (SR 347).
The ground was covered with old leaves, left over from the winter; we spent a lot of time brushing aside those leaves, hoping to find treasure buried underneath them.
Trail (JF Trail #106) goes left of the windmill downstream and crosses Randolph Canyon Wash.
From the junction , turn left on the Dutchman Trail and continue to follow Bluff Springs Canyon.
Then, we continued west on US 60 to Wendon, where we turned north on Alamo Road.
Once I read the directions, I realized that we had exited the freeway too early; we needed to keep going south until we came to the Sir Francis Drake Highway.
Just past Kohl's Ranch, turn left onto the road to the Tonto Creek Fish Hatchery.
Then, we took 85 south to a point fifteen miles north of Gila Bend, to a dirt road on the left side of the highway, opposite an old burned down general store.
After a quarter of a mile, we came to a trail junction, where the Houston Loop continued to the left, and on the right was the trail that went to the Horse Camp.
Montrose was not far from Grand Junction; as soon as we left the Colorado National Monument, we took US 50 south through the town of Delta and straight into Montrose - a total drive of about 65 miles, or one hour.
Going off to the left, at the bottom of the trail, we found a sandy path, lined with rocks, leading downstream, so we followed that instead to see where it would take us.
Go south on dirt road for 2 miles to fork.
To get there, we took I-17 north to the Prescott exit (SR 69).
To get there, we took I-10 west to the Salome exit (number 81), turned left, and then proceeded south on Harquahala Valley Road for five miles, until we reached Courthouse/Centennial Road.
To get there, we took I-17 north to the Sedona exit, at SR 179.
From there, instead of turning left to return to Klondyke Road, we went right, towards the town of Bonita.
Erika and I still had a half a bladder each, so Bill and John used what was left of the water to fill up theirs so that they could make it to Horton Creek.
Turn left on Iron Springs Road.
To get there, we had to drive back to Strawberry and then turn west at the Strawberry Lodge.
To get there, we took US 191 north to Utah Highway 313, and that took us right into the Island in the Sky District of Canyonlands National Park.
From there, we started hiking downhill, towards the next point of interest on the trail: Little Peachtree Rock.
As we drove west back into town, we stopped at an Italian-American restaurant in the Old Western-style strip mall next to the Bison Ranch development.
This was tied to the ship's manifest, to ensure that no one was left behind when the ship left port.
After the wash, the Super Trail heads up the west side of a ridge and then U-turns around and heads south on the west side of a different canyon.
They are old mining towns, which had been left in ruins when the people moved on after the mines ran dry.
The Overton Trail, much like the Go John Trail, climbs toward a saddle for about a half mile before going downhill, towards state trust land.
Continue south on the west side of the creek for another tenth of a mile or so and then cross back.
At the sixth crossing, we left the Dutchman Trail and began hiking up the creek.
Please note that there is another tank that you will pass that is off to your left and below the road -- this is not Towel Tank.
At the point where SR 181 turned right, we went left onto Turkey Creek Road - a well-maintained dirt road that passed by several ranches before entering the Coronado National Forest.
From I-17 North, take the Carefree Highway (SR 74) exit and go left (west) towards the Lake Pleasant Recreational Area.
About a mile after we had left the trail junction, John recommended that we turn around.
He turned right at the traffic light then took a left at the first side street he came to.
It was all downhill back to Granite Basin Road, and we coasted all the way there.
From our campsite, it was about a third of a mile to the trailhead, from which you could take two trails: the Jemez Falls Trail, which was a quarter-mile trail leading to Jemez Falls; and the Battleship Rock Trail, a five mile trail that was mostly downhill, leading to the McCaulley Hot Springs and to Battleship Rock (a descriptive name).
The trail turns south and heads through thick oak forest.
To get there, we took SC 48 through Chapin and turned left onto Peak Street.
Turn left onto the Potato Patch Campground Road.
From there, it was all downhill to the campground...
The lake on the Muddy Hollow Trail At the trail junction, we found a pretty little lake and a river, which we followed until the trail turned to the left, just before it ended at the Limatour Beach Trailhead.
It was all uphill at that point; I rode the entire distance in my highest gear; Mary made it about halfway up the hill before she had to walk her bicycle again.
From the drainage, it was all uphill again to the junction with the Ken Patrick Trail.
He returned an hour later, happy to announce that he had found his Chase card exactly where he had left it: at the gas station!
Having found that cache, we then returned to SR 87 and continued north to the next cache site, which was just off of FR 300 - the Rim Road.
The driver announced that it would be a two and a half hour drive to Seward, and along the way, he would be our tour guide for the day, providing us information about the area between Anchorage and Seward as we drove south along Alaska Highway 1.
From there, it was all downhill back to the car, and when we reached the trailhead, we all shared an 'end-of-trail' kiss.
Once we were back on the Trans-Canadian Highway, we started heading east again, towards Banff.
From Fountain Hills, take AZ 87 north to mile marker 235.5.
To get to Willow Springs Lake, we took the Beeline Highway (SR 87) north to Payson; once there, we turned right at the junction with SR 260 and continued east for about twenty miles, until we reached the top of the Mogollon Rim.
As promised, Lotte and Richard had left the key to the Lake House for us under the door mat prior to leaving for Minnesota in their motor home.
To get there, we headed north on I-17 until we reached Camp Verde, then drove east about fifteen miles, to FR 618.
It became clearer to me as we turned left onto San Francisco Street and followed that all the way north until it dead-ended'at the Elk's Lodge where we were married five years ago.
To get there, we took US 60 east towards Superior; the park is located on the right, just shy of the Superior town limits.
At 2.2 miles, the trail turns west at a junction with the Los Burros connector trail.
Just as the book had described, the trail turned to the left at the base of Sugarloaf Mountain and continued around until it came to another forest road.
Since we had left the trail so early, and since we weren't in any sort of hurry to get back to Phoenix, John suggested that we do a little exploring in the area.
We kept walking across the ridge and eventually started going downhill again, towards a forest road.
For this hike turn left at this junction and continue along Sycamore Creek for 3 miles back to the Salt Flat camping area.
As we exited the highway, we turned left onto Hovatter Road and crossed over the bridge.
Turn left onto Apache Pass Road and follow for six miles to the Fort Bowie Trailhead.
Take the right fork and head north toward Talliesin Ridge.
A1 continued south, towards Kingston; A3 went east, out of town.
We took SC 1 out of downtown Chester then turned north onto Old York Road.
After leaving Camp Verde, we continued north until we came to the Sedona exit (the junction with SR 179).
According to the map that we had picked up at the Radium Information Center, one day earlier, there is a Visitor's Center about two-thirds of the way through the park, near the Lower Kananaski Lake and William Watson Lodge.
Once we were back on I-17, we continued north until we came to the Sunset Point Rest Area.
Turn left here to do this loop in a clockwise manner.
So why would we go east to go south?
Since it was going to be a very long drive, we left the house bright and early, around 7:00 a.m.
Turn left onto Spur Cross Road.
Instead of finding the cabin, he found a connecting trail that went south from the Haunted Canyon Trail.
A mile before we arrived at the trailhead, we were able to see what was left of the Tortilla Ranch: a corral, a water tank, a windmill, and a concrete slab where the ranch house used to be.
I then turned left onto Tanque Verde Road and continued going east for many more miles, until I came to the Catalina Highway.
miles go left on Second Water #236.
Just before entering Gila Bend, though, we turned left onto SR 238, the road that goes past the Estrella Sailport and Drop Zone and into the town of Maricopa.
Then, we started heading east, through the snow, on SR 260...
Although we had neighbors to the south and to the north, we decided to take it anyway, hoping that we would still be far enough away from them that we wouldn't have to hear them.
We decided to go left, and after following a narrow footpath for about a quarter of a mile, we ended up back on an old jeep road.
Named for the former premier of Alberta, Peter Lougheed Park lies in the southern tip of the Kananaskis Country and borders on British Columbia.
In McNary, we turned left on Vernon Road and drove for eight miles on a dirt road until we came to the Los Burros Campground, in the Sitgreaves National Forest.
To get there, we took US 60 east towards the town of Superior, then merged onto SR 77 South.
Four-tenths of a mile later, we picked up the Second Water Trail #236, which continues north towards the Boulder Canyon Trail #103.
Turn left onto Tanque Verde Road, and continue east until you come to Sabino Canyon Road - turn left, and from there go north approximately four miles until you come to the Sabino Canyon Recreation Area, on the right.
There is a checkpoint just north of the junction of State Routes 80 and 82; we managed to avoid it by turning left onto Highway 82.
There, we turned left and continued north until we came to the turn-off for the trailhead (FR 627), on the right hand side of the road, just below Hart Prairie.
Knowing that we still had a lot of packing to do that evening, we turned around in Hinton and started heading west again, towards Jasper.
Turn left into the McDowell Mountain Regional Park.
Just before you get to the Boyce Thompson Arboretum, turn left onto Hewitt Canyon road and then an immediate right onto FR 8.
We already knew that we were going to have to go east to find snow because it had been a very quiet winter.
There, we briefly visited the monument of Geronimo's surrender; then, we turned left onto Skeleton Canyon Road to go to the actual site of the surrender.
Once on A2, we went west for about fifteen minutes, until we reached the city of Black River.
From Scottsdale, drive east on Shea to 124th Street.
Turn left onto Tanque Verde Road, and continue east until you come to Sabino Canyon Road - turn left, and from there go north approximately four miles until you come to the Sabino Canyon Recreation Area, on the right.
One branch went left to Beasley Flat, the other went straight to the Chasm Creek and the Gap Creek Trailheads - one of those two trails would be our hike of the day.
Just past the small town of Top of the World, we turned left onto Pinto Valley Mine Road (FR 287) and followed the public access road, which took us through the active mine.
On Highway 40, as we made our way north to the Trans-Canadian Highway, we saw several more deer, as well as another coyote.
After paying our entry fee for Picacho Peak State Park, we proceeded past the Visitor's Center (which was under construction) then turned left onto the Barrett Loop, at the end of which was the trailhead for the Hunter Trail.
Durango-Silverton Railroad Line
Soon after leaving the desert floor, the highway began its long, steep climb up the Kaibab Plateau, at which point we left the Navajo Nation behind and entered the Kaibab National Forest.
We had an idea of which road it was and where it would be, but when John went to look it up, he realized that he had left the book at home.
Upon arriving in Pine/Strawberry, we entered into what was left of the ponderosa pine forest surrounding the two communities.
As she drove us home, she explained that, while coming to look after Bootsie that morning, she noticed that the Easter Bunny had left behind a little surprise for Mary: there were six plastic Easter eggs for her to find.
After passing through Gila Bend to get some non-fat frozen yogurt (instead of ice cream), we took SR 85 north through Buckeye then headed east on Old Highway 85, which eventually becomes Buckeye Road in Phoenix.
The trail begins to the south.
The half-mile on the Crest Trail was quite easy; it went uphill for about a hundred feet, but then it began to descend again just before we reached the junction with the Oversite Trail.
After passing by the Pass Mountain Trailhead, the trail turned to the north; at that point, it was only another half of a mile to the Wind Cave Trailhead...
It went uphill for about a quarter of a mile, at a very gentle grade that wasn't enough to slow us down, but it did get us warmed up for what lay ahead.
We had to return to the fork in the road, where Salt Mine Road ended and FR 574 began; we turned left from Beasley Flat Road onto FR 574 and drove for eight miles until the road ended, or until it got too bad for travel, whichever came first.
We turned there and made our way west, towards Collier Boulevard, to complete a nine-mile loop.
At the opposite end of the lake, we connected to the Walnut Creek Trail; at that point, we left the lake's edge and the paved trail and entered the wooded area.
Among the rubble and garbage that was left behind in Sundad, there are white rocks lining Main Street, to mark where the town once stood.
Back on the main path, the trail now descends gradually to the east.
We left for Baltimore Harbor around 10:00 a.m.
Between mile markers 20 and 21 turn left at the Paria Ranger Station.
Although the trail was busy and we passed a lot of people on our way to the next saddle, we truly felt as though we had left the city behind.
According to the directions, we had to go left after the exit and follow 547th Avenue to the Eagletail Ranch.
Upon exiting the park, I turned left onto Highway 90 and drove the motor home nine miles to Benson.
Once the trail heads west, civilization is lost, blocked by tall hills, and you will finally feel like you have left the city.
Turn left at the junction and follow the Rim Trail.
The Jeep cuts through Canyonlands National Park After 6.3 miles, we left the National Park boundary, at which point the Shafer Trail became Potash Road.
We stayed at the Best Western on Main Street, which was the least expensive of the hotels, but was still quite expensive.
At 1.2 miles, Chevelon Creek turns to the West.
After climbing 3.5 miles you reach a saddle where Trail #377 branches off to the right.
From Horton Spring, the Highline trail climbs away to the west..
The first thing we came to as we left the gift shop was a man-made swimming pool...
Part of the reason for that was, Mary kept leaning to her left in the pack, so that she could sightsee.
From the picnic area the trail continues to the south and switchbacks down along Groom Creek.
From the trailhead, trail #45 (Deer Creek), trail #46 (South Fork) and trail #47 (Gold Ridge) all start out on the same trail.
After driving all day, we left the boundary of the Canadian park system and arrived in the town of Canmore.
miles down this steep trail we reached our turnaround point at Cima Cabin, a Forest Service maintenance cabin.
At 2.3 miles, the trail left the county park; we passed through a gate, where there was a sign indicating that we had left the Maricopa County Park system and were now on State Trust Land.
About a half mile north of Whiskey Springs the trail turns to the west and begins its ascent toward Miners Summit.
There, we turned left, crossed over the creek, and picked up the trail on the other side.
After leaving Little Peachtree Rock, the trail continued towards a large, flat area covered with white sand - so white that it looked like the ground was still blanketed with snow!
At the Park Access, turn left onto Castle Creek Road, which immediately becomes dirt road (passable in sedan).
Shortly after the trail turns to the east, it drops down along a rocky cliff and then comes to a large cave.
We briefly talked about spending time in Southern Mexico, in the Yucatan peninsula, but disregarded the idea in pursuit of other sites in the US.
Then, we came to the west trailhead, where we would start the next leg of our journey: Little Yeager Canyon Trail #533, which would take us another two miles uphill to Forest Road 105.
So, with all of our gear packed and ready to go, we left the house at 6:30 a.m.
From the boundary, the trail follows the contour of the mountain as it turns to the east.
Above that patch of snow, the hiker trail traversed a narrow ledge - perhaps ten feet wide - that had sheer fifty foot drop down the left-hand side.
After about 1.3 miles, the trail turns to the north and begins to parallel a wash.
The trail turns to the south and follows along the east side of 'The Boulders'.
The scenic drive took us along the northern coastline of Jamaica, through several communities, such as Falmouth, Duncans, and St. Ann's Bay.
Just after that trail juction, you will see Pelican Lake - here, the trail starts a steep climb uphill, after which it will start back down towards the coast again.
As we left Reavis Saddle, the landscape began to change again, as we found ourselves winding through grasslands, among ponderosa pines and junipers.
About two hours into the trail, I suddenly realized that I had left my birth control pills in the van!
Though lower in elevation than Forest Lakes, Heber-Overgaard was just as snow-covered and icy.
At my fast pace, I made it in just ten minutes; in just fifteen minutes, I arrived at the place where I had left John and Mary, only to find that they were still looking for the cache.
The Rim Trail starts out heading east and then turns to the north after about 3 miles.
From the trailhead, the trail rises gently to the north.
Bow Summit serves as the watershed divide between the North and the South Saskatchewan Rivers.
When we turned left into the parking lot, we discovered that Bugles was closed for the season.
Now that we were reunited with each other, we left Cave and Basin and took a drive to Minnewanka Lake.
From parking area, follow trail (real flat) south and then west to Red Mountain.
As we left LaBarge Springs, we also left the Dutchman Trail and started hiking on the Red Tanks Trail, which would take us to Trap Canyon.
The fort is situated on a high peninsula, overlooking Baltimore Harbor.
The trail began with a short jaunt downhill and a dry creek-crossing towards a wide track that appeared to be an old jeep road.
Cannons overlooking Baltimore Harbor at Fort McHenry.
John & Mary at Reed's Water After setting up camp, we all went to the creek to filter water.
The trail soon took us around a hill of giant brown lava rocks and entered into the wash.
The Hunter Trail began with a steep John and Mary atop a boulder.
There, we turned left onto Tonto Creek Road and parked at the day-use area, a mile up the road.
At the last crossing (the Sixth from the trailhead), the Dutchman trail turns hard right, parallels the creek for about 200 yards and then turns left away form the creek.
The Garden Wall Trail follows along the west face of the Continental Divide and offers spectacular views of the glacial valleys below.
The last hundred yards is a steep climb up to Marshall Saddle, where the trail junctions with several other trails, including the Wilderness of Rocks Trail.
As I made my way across the graded area, back to where I had left Mary, my boot got caught in an ice hole that was about six inches in diameter and was momentarily submerged in freezing cold water.
We turned left at the junction and hiked through a forest of ponderosa pines for about one mile, until we came to Hansen Tank, where we completed the loop.
Stay on the Jeep trail as it continues to the east and the drops into Waldroup Canyon.
We continued south along the Icefields Parkway until we reached the junction with the Trans-Canadian Highway.
John came to the conclusion that these were the 'swimming pools' he had read about in the book; since the water level on the lake was so low (sixteen feet lower than normal), the pools of water were going to be lower, too.
This part of the trail took place outside of Usery Park; in fact, we left the park boundaries about 1.5 miles into the trail.
The boat left from La Isla Mall and followed the canal into the dark lagoon, then looped back towards the mall, completing a full circle.
For our hike, we started out on the southern leg of the trail, to do the loop in a clockwise direction.
Turn left on the road immediately after the cattle guard.
This area lies in the high grasslands of the state, and the highway runs parallel to the railroad tracks.
One mile from the trail head the trail reaches the first large meadows along the West Fork of the Little Colorado River.
After 1.75 miles the trail drops into Lower Barks Canyon (12.5) and turns south.
After we left Dreher Island State Park that afternoon, John drove like mad back to Columbia.
We drove to Camp Verde, took the General Crook Trail exit, and drove east on SR 260 until we came to FR 708, which becomes Fossil Creek Road.
Within a quarter mile the trail turns to the west again and climbs up to a ridge that over looks the Peralta Trailhead (13.0).
To get to the Fossil Springs Trail, we drove north on Highway 87 to Strawberry then turned left on Fossil Creek Road, which turns into Forest Road 708 (this is also the road to Childs).
Just before the arboretum signage, we took a left on Hermit Station Road, and then an immediate right on FR 8 (Happy Camp Road).
Upon reaching US 191, we went north for about eleven miles, until we came to the turn-off for Roper Lake.
Make your way North down to the O'Grady Canyon bottom.
Closer to the creek, there were many different types of trees, including oak, Arizona sycamore, cypress, and maple trees - a landscape that was much different than Saturday's high-elevation hike near Fly's Peak.
The town itself was long and narrow, with the Canadian-Pacific Railroad tracks running parallel to the main thoroughfare.
On the other side of town, there were three more trails: the Cypress Trail, the Monument Peak Trail, and the Boulders Loop Trail.
The trail to Jemez Falls is a quarter-mile long trail with lots of ups and downs; it ends up at a low brick wall overlooking the waterfalls, but if you continue on a little further, the trail cuts through boulders and goes down to the Jemez River.
Once we left the National Park boundaries, the road had a wider shoulder in which we could ride without having to worry about the traffic behind us.
At one point, the trail left the forest service road and became a single track again; we went right by it!
Montezuma's Well National Monument is located about four miles north of Camp Verde, along Wet Beaver Creek.
Next, as we reached the junction with the Yellowhead Highway, he hemmed and hawed out loud about 'which way to go' and eventually turned left, towards Jasper.
Here, the trail forks: the Weir Trail goes to the left, and the Bell Trail continues on the right.
Hiking the Yeager Canyon Loop The trail began with a very gentle downhill trek through a ponderosa pine forest.
Continue east until your reach FR 289 -- the turn off for the Tonto Creek Fish Hatchery.
Cairns marked the spot where the trail crossed Fossil Creek; unfortunately, these cairns were hard to spot from the trail register.
We returned to the Trans-Canadian Highway and continued our westward drive through Yoho National Park.
John & Mary climbed onto a boulder next to Little Peachtree Rock.
After stopping for gas, we took Highway 260 east into town.
Follow Snow Bowl Road 4.5 miles to the Lamar Haines Memorial Wildlife Area, on the right.
After a mile the trail turns to the east and begins its gentle climb around the North flank of Pass Mountain.
It begins in high desert, cutting through meadows and desert shrubs before entering the wilderness area at West Clear Creek.
It took us back downhill again, on the other side of the ridge, towards Lost Dog Wash.
From Olema, take CA Highway 1 (Pacific Coast Highway) south to Bolinas Road.
For the next half mile, the trail meanders back and forth through lush ferns, oaks and pine trees, crossing the creek several times.
There were acres upon acres of snow-covered fields, untouched by human feet, under a forest of leaf-bare aspen trees and a clear, blue sky.
At the trail junction, the trail began its long, steep ascent towards Laughing Falls.
One of the three trails leading to Fossil Springs, the Flume Road Trail, is an actual road that is used by APS to maintain the flume.
Once all ten hikers were on board the shuttle, we left the harbor for Mendenhall Glacier.
During our return hike, as we were about to climb over a pile of rocks on the trail, John came face to face with a rattlesnake!
Mary and I were leaning towards visiting either King's Mountain National Military Park, both of which are located in the northern part of the state, near the North Carolina border.
Skydive Playa is a drop zone that does mostly tandem jumps over Playa Del Carmen, landing on the beach nearby.
From the end of the road the trail is an old jeep trail that climbs steadily to the north.
Part of the Cabin Loop in the Coconino National Forest, the U-Bar Trail #28 stretches 6.5 miles between Pinchot Cabin and Buck Springs Cabin, passing through Barbershop and Dane Canyons along the way.
State Highway 99 took us past McHood State Park, through which Clear Creek runs; it also took us past beautiful red clay flatlands that were dotted with giant red sandstone boulders - rock structures that looked completely out of place against the flat landscape.
This trail is 5 miles long and meanders through the Sonoran desert at the foot of Picacho Peak to the Sunset Parking Area.
Using Travelocity.com, John booked us a hotel room at the Best Western in Willcox, which was the town closest to the monument.
This section of the city was bustling with activity; locals were crowded in the streets buying and selling goods: fruit, fish, vegetables...
This beach would have been a perfect place to canoe-camp...
named creeks and 2 drainages as well as 4 trails all converge in Oak flat.
The little canyon almost immediately began to narrow as it came to a spring, where there was a pool of clear water, next to a 'garden wall', where the canyon wall was covered with green vines.
From the trail junction, the U-Bar Trail climbed back onto Dane Ridge; then, for the next mile and a half, the trail was flat and easy to follow.
Instead, Holland-America busses their passengers from the Anchorage Airport into Seward, where cruise ships can port safely.
The lake spans across the Arizona-Utah border; most of the water lays in the state of Utah, but half of the marinas run on Arizona time (Mountain Standard Time).
We hiked a quarter of a mile on the Chimbly Water Trail; then, we came to yet another trail junction - this time, with the West Lake Trail #351.
Based on the trail description that we had read, the trail was about 4 miles long and would take us to a Forest Service tower on top of Parson's Mountain.
We turned left onto Ellsworth then took a right into Usery Park, where we had to pay a $5.00 entry fee to get into the park.
The trail that we wanted to hike was the Kendrick Trail #22, a nine-mile (round trip) trail that goes to the top of Kendrick Mountain and back.
A deer grazing in Spray Valley Provincial Park.
One beautiful Saturday in January, we decided to hike the Lava Flow Trail, starting from the South Trailhead.
The Muddy Hollow Trail begins at a Park Service shed and follows along a flat, wide trail for 1.4 miles.
Just after we entered the wilderness area, the trail began to turn to the east as it wrapped around the mountain and descended a bit.
We had understood from the directions given to us by the gas station manager that we needed to turn left then cross over a bridge.
Next came New Mexico - and, up until we reached Albuquerque, the highway continued in the same fashion: long, straight, flat, and boring.
At 2.7 miles, you will reach a trail junction with the Lower Rhyolite Trail and the Sarah Deming Trail.
Trail begins in a forested area near a corral.
feet) the trail follows an old road as it climbs steeply to the south.
The biggest pool we found was at a fork in the trail, where the trail branched off into a horse trail and a hiker trail.
mile further the Pinto Peak Trail #213 trail forks off to the right.
The trail follows along the contour of Bluff Springs Mountain for 1.5 miles before dropping back down to the creek at the junction of LaBarge Canyon (5.6 miles).
Shortly after the Pinto Peak Trail junction, the Spencer Spring trail trail forks off to the left and follows Spring Creek.
There weren't any other National Parks along the highway; and as soon as we left Oklahoma, we found ourselves back in the desert wasteland known as Texas, on one long, straight, flat, and boring stretch of highway.
We made good time going through town, despite the evening rush hour, and we made even better time on US 180 going north out of Flagstaff.
Just before embarking on our hike, we heard a 'boom'; then, seconds later, a low-flying F-15 fighter appeared from the south and buzzed over us at an altitude of about five or six hundred feet.
Just before coming into the wilderness area, the trail became steep and rocky, eventually coming out onto a huge mountain meadow ' Lew's Meadow, our destination.
The first two miles of this trail are heavily used by bird-watchers, as there are many species of birds in this part of the forest.
The terrain surrounding the trail is very rocky, with large and small boulders scattered about the desert landscape.
The Upper Hot Springs were back at the Banff Gondola, near the Banff Hot Springs pools.
And as we reached the mud puddle, the van slipped off the road, high-centering itself on a hump of rocks, and came to a stop just feet from a tree as the front left tire impacted a boulder.
The trail followed a ridgeline along east wall of the canyon, tracing along the border of the Pusch Ridge Wilderness Area.
As we continued hiking, we soon came to a third rock formation: two giant boulders, equal in size, with the same erosion marks as Peachtree and Little Peachtree Rocks.
Our next stop was the gas station in Why, Arizona, which is a tiny town just outside of Organ Pipe National Monument along Highway 85.
From the trail junction, the Long Park Trail began to descend as it left the wilderness area.
The Houston Bros trail heads off to the right.
Once we finished paying for our goods, we left Fort McHenry and made our way back to the boat dock to wait for our water taxi back to Baltimore Harbor.
Montezuma's Castle There was a flat, paved trail that led from the visitor's center to the ruins of Montezuma's Castle, built high up on the sheer cliff walls.
We could see almost all of southern Arizona, from Tucson to the Mexican border.
From Benson, we continued driving east on I-10 all the way through the southern tip of New Mexico, to El Paso, Texas, our next stop.
The trail continued under a canopy of winter-bare sycamore trees, through a thick carpet of autumn leaves.
At 2.4 miles, you will reach another trail junction: the Mushroom Rock Trail, and the Ed Riggs Trail.
One of Arizona's many state parks, Boyce Thompson has one of the best collections of trees and plants in the state, as well as hiking trails to enjoy.
We found one several miles up the road - its parking area was just off of the highway, and there was a sledding hill just inside the fence.
Big Springs, a natural spring inside the canyon wall, shot forth water like a waterfall, and it was surrounded by lush, green tropical foliage.
ACS's 2008 President's Club was held on Marco Island, Florida, at the Marco Island Marriott Resort.
This trail follows a series of old jeep roads and trails to the wilderness boundary.
we started out towards the Hon-Dah Casino and Resort, located just three miles east of Pinetop-Lakeside on the White Mountain Apache Indian Reservation.
There was a forest of seven-foot tall baby pine trees growing among the blackened fallen tree trunks that were strewn about our path.
Then, about twenty minutes later, we came to the first slot canyon, where the water was not very deep.
Mary works on her Junior Ranger book on the Boardwalk Trail in Congaree National Park.
After crossing over the bridge, we took Vekol Road for 0.7 miles then turned left onto a side road.
The Trans-Canadian Highway took us through the city of Calgary.
Arizona has several of these cabins available for rent, including Kendrick Cabin, near Kendrick Mountain; Crescent Moon Cabin, near Sedona; and Kentucky Camp, located in the Santa Rita Mountains, south of Tucson.
The largest marina is Wahweap, which is right on the state line; at Wahweap, there is a lodge with restaurants and shops, a campground, picnic areas and other day use areas, boat ramps, and houseboat rentals.
At the very end of the trail, we found a fifty-foot tall red rock cliff, at the base of which was a deep pool of water: it truly looked like Hell's Hole!
Rather than return to camp, we drove into Willcox instead, to replenish our ice supply.
To get to Miette Hot Springs, we took the Yellowhead Highway (Canada 16) east from Jasper, for about forty miles.
About five hundred feet down the trail, we came to the first trail junction: the West Pinto Trail #212.
One of the main tourist attractions on Broad Street was St. Michael's Church, a large white cathedral on the corner of The pipe organ at St. Michael's Church in Charleston.
From the park to Cima Saddle, the trail descended at a slight grade towards the junction with the Greenhouse Trail.
Little Peachtree Rock, unlike its larger cousin at the beginning of the trail, was a much smaller and much more stable rock formation, but with the same type of erosion all about it.
From the Weeping Wall, we then drove non-stop towards Sunwapta Pass, which not only marks the park boundary between Banff and Jasper, but it also marks the watershed divide between the North Saskatchewan and the Athabasca Rivers.
The eastern region, in which we were hiking, is very pretty, even in the winter time when the sycamore trees surrounding the creeks are leaf-bare and the trails are covered with dead leaves.
This time, we canoed to a nice, flat beach, on the other side of the lake from the boat launch.
Our plan for the day was to see Fort McHenry National Monument, located in Baltimore Harbor.
Despite her difficulties, Mary did have an easy time getting across the 'ledge', where the trail passed along a narrow rock shelf creekside.
Lotte told us that, when she hiked that trail with Erika, they had gotten confused with the various trail junctions; as a result, she learned that we should always keep left, at every junction.
There was, however, one source that recommended starting on Highway 31 and going counter-clockwise all the way around the island, past Kaupo and Kipahulu, then approaching Hana from the South.
As we left the jeep road, the trail became a narrow footpath that began to climb up the rocky slope of the canyon wall.
We drove to the Tavasci Marsh trailhead, which was located at the northern tip of the park, where the road dead-ended.
Located in the Table Top Wilderness Area (a BLM wilderness area), the Table Top Trail is a seven-mile (roundtrip) trail that goes to the top of Table Top Mountain.
Built in 1888 during the early days of the Canadian-Pacific Railroad, the Banff Springs Resort once served as railway hotel but soon catered to wealthy tourists who came to the Canadian Rockies to stay for several months at a time.
We then turned left onto Limatour Road and followed that to Muddy Hollow Road, which was off to the right.
From the trail junction, the Bear Flat Trail took us along the contour, through the high grasslands of the Mogollon Rim.
Directly across the road from the bar a lodgepole fence enclosed a large section of the prairie for a landing area, and the runway was right in front of the fence.
The next slot canyon we came to was even more narrow that the last, and its water was even deeper.
Extending from Banff to Jasper National Parks, the parkway is only accessible by park visitors, possessing a valid park pass, and is closed to commercial vehicles (with the exception of tour buses, of course).
The only other restaurant in town was a small Mexican food place on top of a hill that overlooks the town: a place called Alice's Restaurant.
People had bought up the land in order to preserve the beautiful riparian area along the Aravaipa River.
John managed to climb onto the boulder; he stood there long enough John, on a boulder, high above Yeager Canyon.
Me, in front of Bison Ranch, halfway through our bicycle ride.
As it left the trail junction, the Uncle Jim Trail dropped steeply into a drainage then soon climbed back out again...
Eventually, Highway 40 returned us to the Trans-Canadian Highway.
Among the burnt trees, we passed through grasses and short shrubs, plants which had taken over since the fire.
Continue east on US 60 and exit at Ellsworth.
From US 60, just past Top of the World, we had to turn left on Pinto Valley Road, a winding forest road that would take us through the Pinto Mine.
The Catwalk Trail is comprised of three different trails: an easy trail and a medium-difficulty trail, which parallel each other and eventually meet up at the catwalks; and a difficult trail that continues on past the catwalks, to the end of the trail.
There were animals everywhere we looked: squirrels, chipmunks, birds both large and small, and even deer grazing at the side of the highway.
It was part of a 'boulder garden', containing boulders of all shapes and sizes.
There was a forest service road marker indicating that it was FR 9247B; and, 100 yards up the road, we came to a kiosk and trail sign, indicating the start of the Mail Trail #84.
The trees surrounding the creek, however, were still leaf-bare for winter, making the area look very stark and cold.
Follow Gurley Street one mille through downtown Prescott to Grove Avenue.
Due to the considerably steep slope of the trail, we had to take our time going back downhill, too, so that we wouldn't slip and fall on the loose cinder that covered the trail.
And so, we left Canyonlands National Park via Shafer Canyon Road, switchbacking all the way down into the canyon, along a narrow, steep, rocky road with sheer drop-offs.
Our hike began on a narrow footpath that followed along the fence line, which bordered a creek - this creek had several pools of water.
There are 1960 miles of shoreline along this lake -- more shoreline than the Western United States!
From there, the trail continued along the base of the mountain for another mile or so, as it headed towards the West Trailhead.
There were red Indian paintbrushes, white calla lilies, purple and red cactus flowers, and bright orange flowers all along the length of the trail.
It took us twenty minutes to reach the top of Lennox Crater - a large, bowl-shaped crater that was completely covered with cinder and dotted with a sparse forest of pine trees.
Organ Pipe National Monument is filled with many species of cactus and other desert plants, everything from saguaros to hedgehogs, from ocotillos to creosote, palo verde trees, and, yes, lots and lots of organ pipes!
From Tucson, take Grant Road east to Tanque Verde Road.
The first several miles of Klondyke Road cuts through low desert then gently begins to climb to high desert as it approaches private land, on which there are acres upon acres of ranches.
Mary walks through Dickinson Flat.
Along these roads, we drove through vast meadows covered with wild flowers of every color as well as through forests of pine and aspen trees.
mile before you reach Charlebois Spring the trail will cross LaBarge Creek.
The gang's all here - Erik, Marcheta, Megan, Mike, Suzanne, Todd, Charlene, Debbie, Brian, Lori, Mary, Heather & John After parking the cars, the seven of us walked back to the corner of Napa Street and First Street to look for Il Centro.
As we passed through Payson, the Pine and Strawberry, I knew then that we were going onto the northern part of the Rim, but I still didn't have a clue as to where we were going.
According to the trail description we had seen in our 'Trail Bible', the Victorine Trail crossed over the National Forest boundary line and climbed out of the canyon on the other side of the creek, eventually ending at FR 115 in the Apache-Sitgreaves Forest.
This was a very scenic route that took us through a thick forest of pine, fir and spruce trees, high up in the White Mountains.
The trail follows the contour of the canyon as it climbs from desert to riparian to pine trees.
At the upper end of this canyon is Wrather Arch.
In Natural Bridges National Monument (located off of Utah Highway 275), take the main road past the visitor's center to the Owachomo Bridge parking area.
In Natural Bridges National Monument (located off of Utah Highway 275), take the main road past the visitor's center to the Kachina Bridge parking area.
At times, the trail followed closely along the banks of the river; other times, it pulled away from the water and twisted through the dense trees.
The trail then descends toward the boundary with the White Mountain Indian Reservation.
Well, honey, we avoided the steep section of the trail!
On Sunday morning, January 4, John and Mary and I packed up our snowshoes and our winter gear and headed north on SR 87 towards Payson.
After rounding Blacktop Mesa the trail descends by long switchbacks to East Boulder Canyon.
We decided to try to hike to it, in hopes that we could see it; but a quarter of a mile later, we discovered that the trail was just going to lead us downhill, towards Cave Creek.
Mary pauses to rest in a small grotto along the trail.
The trail begins at a large cairn on the north.
There would be water in the numerous springs along the trail as well as water in Webber Creek, at the Geronimo Trailhead.
Near the point where the first and the second dirt roads intersected, the first road continued on and eventually ended at a gate, off the side of the highway.
Nearby, about a hundred feet from Peachtree Rock, we came to a 20-foot waterfall that trickled into a small creek.
The next morning, after breakfast and coffee, it was time to drop and camp and head home.
In addition to two large swimming pools, there were many shops and restaurants, a putting green, racquetball and handball courts, a children's playground, and ruins - yes, Mayan ruins!
From the cabin, the Houston Brothers Trail heads south down the open canyon.
About four-tenths of a mile from trailhead # 2 the trail turns right (south) and drops more steeply to a plateau high above the canyon bottom.
In addition to the six-lane main thoroughfare (three lanes going in each direction), there were frontage roads as well, running parallel to the main street and separated by a median.
The four of us hid on a steep ridge just above the sandstone ledge...
Near the southern tip of the island, Collier Boulevard curved to the east, then turned north again and became Collier Court.
However, the Columbiana Mall - Columbia's largest mall - had free WiFi in their Food Court!
Satisfied that he had given the 4Runner an adequate test, John felt it safe to call an end to our off-road adventure and return to the pavement.
At the top of Apache Maid Mountain, we found a parking area, a restroom, and a US Forest Service Watch Tower.
The canyon was lush and green, with a perennial creek running through it.
There were trails all over the park, two of which left from the picnic areas at which we were parked.
Apparently, some hunters had recently killed a deer along the trail; the deer had been gutted, and its entrails were left by the side of the creek for the birds of prey to eat.
At this point, we found ourselves on the High Water Trail, which, as John described it, was nothing more than a straight shot across the desert, with several river crossings, some of which were back-to-back.
Thirty-seven cairns from trailhead #2 (about 1 mile), the trail turns left (east) at a wooden sign.
He found the perfect spot next to the edge of a twenty-five foot tall cliff and set up the tent about six-feet from the edge.
This trail is a loop hike that takes you to Mesa Arch, a arch found on a cliff overlooking Canyonlands.
There were duty-free shops, gift shops, and restaurants all the way down to the gates.
At mile 6.5 is Slide Rock Arch, an enormous piece of Navajo Sandstone that fell from the cliff above and landed in the river bed creating a huge and beautiful arch.
As we left the snow play area, we set the GPS to look for the next closest geocache (having not learned our lesson).
About halfway to Prescott, we arrived at Palace Station, an old stagecoach station that now serves as a Forest Service employee cabin during the summer months.
We had a great time at the Verdi's American Bistro, which was a lovely Italian-American restaurant located in a strip mall on North Collier Boulevard.
Calvary Trail climbs steeply over Red Hills and then drops into LaBarge Canyon.
There are a number of springs in this area; the water from these springs provide the water for Flagstaff.
From the trailhead (elevation 9325), the Kachina Trail heads off into the beautiful Coconino Forest.
We left the rest area and kept going north on I-17 until we came to our destination of the day: Badger Springs Road, where we would find the Agua Fria Monument and the Badger Springs Trailhead.
The local Banner Health payroll office was located about two miles north of the hotel, at the North Colorado Medical Center.
This trail is also governed by the National Park Service and lies in four states: Tennessee, Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina; it ends at King's Mountain National Military Park, where the Patriots succeeded in routing the British in the Battle of King's Mountain.
Even though the trail was 4.5 miles long (including the spur up to the top of Pat Mullens Mountain), it was flat and easy enough that Mary could do it with minimal complaints.
After going over Parker Pass, the trail goes downhill towards Second and First Water Creeks.
Despite the fact we could still see signs of civilization (i.e. the houses to the north of us), we found that the desert was very pretty.
The sulphur hot springs, inside of Cave and Basin National Historic Site.
About halfway there, we passed by Jasper and Talbot Lakes, which are separated only by the highway - Jasper Lake lies north of the highway, Talbot to the south.
so we had time for one more tour on the lake in the pontoon boat, this time with no rain.
From Wahweap Marina, boat to buoy number 78 (at the mouth of the Escalante River arm of Lake Powell).
Taking this trail would mean that we could avoid that cliff; and with the steady stream of traffic on the trail, that seemed like a good idea.
After passing through a gate at an old corral, we traveled for about four miles on a good dirt road until we reached the turnoff for the Margie's Cove Trailhead.
The trail immediately enters the Escudilla Wilderness Area and begins to switchback up the mountain, through groves of tall aspen trees.
There were riparian areas, high deserts, the tropics, and even a rare coastal desert area found only in Chile.
Horseback riding in Glacier Continuing on along the trail, we eventually came to the horse loop, which took us through two creek crossings before emerging onto a beautiful meadow.
It is in a beautiful riparian area with large shade trees -- some of which were bare because of winter -- and a large grassy meadow.
As we drove back towards Ulupalakua, we came across scenery that we had missed on the way to Kaupo: natural arches in the rocky shoreline, more blowholes, verdant canyons, and interesting rock formations.
After doing some research on trails, John selected for our hike the U-Bar Trail, which is part of the historic Cabin Loop on the Mogollon Rim.
There, the trail went up a series of stairs, to the old hot springs pool and resort, which is now nothing more than a crumbling ruin, behind a chain link fence.
Just before arriving in Kahului, turn off onto the Kula Highway (Highway 37) and continue on to Highway 377 - the Haleakala Highway.
We soon left the lush desert behind and came to an area that was dry and dusty and covered with black lava rocks.
Near this drainage, you will find a small cairn and a spur trail that will take you several hundred feet to a small pile of rocks that marks Elisha Reavis' grave.
From Whaweap Marina, boat northeast to West Canyon (Mileage Buoy #26).
About five miles in, we came to a rather peculiar meadow, as well as a lunatic...
The Bluff Springs Trail ends at junction with the Dutchman Trail (3.2 miles) near Crystal Springs.
According to the map, Klondyke Road would take us through Aravaipa Canyon and into a parking area at the border of the Aravaipa Wilderness Area.
The trail is completely flat, and there is much to be seen along the way: interesting trees, bridges, lakes and rivers, and lots and lots of birds.
At the bottom of our descent, there was another creek crossing, this time a dry one with a large pool of standing water off to the right of the trail.
We found a small cove surrounded by flat boulders along the shoreline; the water there was deep enough - and clean enough - for us to swim.
Nicknamed 'A Journey Through Time' by the Forest Service, Black Canyon Road would become Forest Road 86 as it passed over the forest service boundary.
There are some beautiful meadows in this area and many fine campsites.
Along the way, the road was lined by beautiful ranch houses with rich green yards covered by tall, majestic trees and enclosed by rustic wood fences -- such lovely scenery to enjoy during the long drive back to Apgar.
The first 0.5 miles of this trail is flat as it meanders through pine forests and pretty mountain meadows.
The trail, which is completely flat and wide enough for two people, winds through the pristine desert.
The trail is located within the city limits of Pinetop-Lakeside, which meant that it was city-hiking, but city-hiking in Phoenix and city-hiking in the Show Low area are entirely different.
After the first half mile, the trail begins to ascend a hill of slick-rock.
We left early in the morning, before the sun came up, and drove west on I-10 until we reached Salome Road, exit 81.
It seems we had forgotten about the western leg of the ride, the part that follows the frontage road along I-10.
True to its name, 'The Boulders' is covered with rust-colored, piano- and house-sized rocks.
Follow the hiker made cairns, ribbons in the trees and occasional rocks painted blue to stay on the trail.
So we drove north on SR 87 for a mile or so and turned left onto Clover Creek Road, where John was surprised to learn that FR 142 was still open.
One hundred feet long and probably eighty feet deep, Hutch's Pool was situated in a narrow part of the canyon and was fed by a gushing waterfall.
It was too late to go back and look for it, though; he just had to hope that he had left it in the Visitor Center and that it was still there.
Washington Park to Geronimo: From the Washington Park trailhead, the trail meanders through some lovely pine and spruce forest.
From trailhead climb ridge 0.4 miles to Woodbury Windmill.
After the mine, the trail climbs to a ridge and the view changes from the south to the west.
After we beached the canoe at the boat launch, Mary and I immediately began to unpack the boat, while John walked back to the parking area to retrieve the 4Runner.
As we reached the other side of the narrow ledge, we had emerged from underneath the bridge and were now beginning our boulder-hop up Pine Creek.
The Hoolie Bacon Trail then ends at a junction with the Red Tanks Trail #107 - the trail that goes into Upper LaBarge Box.
It wasn't long before I could hear rushing water; as I drew closer, I could see that there was a creek, gushing with water, parallel to the trail.
On this 'other summit', locate a ring of rocks with two metal poles sticking out of it.
Located at an elevation of about 9,000 feet, on the flanks of the San Francisco Peaks, this vast meadow was a nice treasure for us to find.
There was a perfect beach for parking the canoe, and there was a very large campsite up on a low ledge.
From Mary's Cache, it was another half-mile hike to the junction with the Ballentine Trail; ten years earlier - on New Year's Day 2000 - John and I had hiked the Ballentine Trail during a cold winter storm.
What we learned, however, was that the Trans-Canadian Highway was under construction north of Castle Junction.
After our obligatory stop at Einstein's Bagels for breakfast, we headed west on I-10 towards Buckeye.
Then, as the trail pulled away from the creek, we returned to high desert, and we had to hike through sharp cactus plants and scrub oak before descending to the creek once again.
From the spring, the trail rounded another corner and soon entered into a cool forest of ponderosa pines; and it was along this stretch of trail that we also encountered snow!
There is an old brick ranch building across the wash.
The road soon curved away from the lakes and entered the forest; at that point, the road followed the boundary between Bow Valley Wildland and Spray Valley Provincial Parks.
Even at the lower elevations along this trail, there were several large patches of slushy snow, in which there was only one set of footprints, which belonged to a lone jogger who passed us just after we had begun hiking.
Next to Morenci is the Phelps-Dodge mining town of Clifton.
Then, suddenly, the trail would force us to climb down a steep embankment, with loose rocks and small boulders over which we had to climb.
The trail took us down a nice, wide path - and even through a short tunnel - and offered us some more spectacular views of the canyon.
After parking the car in the parking area, across from the trailhead, John and Mary and I put on our hiking gear and began hiking the trail...
Romero Pools The Romero Pass Trail is an interesting 6.6-mile long trail that begins in low desert in the Pusch Wilderness, winds through a riparian area surrounding a creek, and finally ends in Ponderosa pines.
We turned left onto the access road and followed it through three wash crossings (one of which was a little rough, but nothing that the Jeep couldn't handle), for about a mile, until it deposited us onto Main Street.
The first 0.6 miles of the trail continues along the access road without crossing into the wilderness area.
About one mile from the lake, right next to the road, is a very pretty meadow with a creek running through it.
Moor your boat at either the west or east side of the butte.
After having hiked for one mile, we stopped to rest next to the creek, at a spot with some nice pools of water and flat rocks to sit on.
On one side of the bridge, the river drops off sharply over a twenty or thirty foot cliff, forming a rushing waterfall.
All along the left side of the road, there were county and state beach parks that were packed with visitors: surfers, swimmers, whale-watchers, tourists.
Our back-up plan, of course, was to hike the Flume Road Trail, which is much more easily accessible in a motor home.
Continue along the trail and at 1.8 miles you will reach the junction of Hicks and Duncan Canyons coming in from the left.
miles the trail establishes it self high up overlooking the paved road and Sabino Canyon.
Mary & Mommy at Pine Saddle At four miles, we came to Pine Saddle, just below the peak of Pine Mountain.
We had heard tell of a winery on the island of Maui; it was Maui's only winery, and it was supposedly located along the Kula Highway (Highway 37).
During a photo stop, shortly before our city-bound friends left us, we saw a deer come running out of a grove of oak trees!
At mile 6.5, we came to our first landmark on the map: Slide Rock Arch'or, as Bill called it, 'Slid' Rock Arch, because, to him, it looked as though the rock had already slid down.
We stopped at the Olema Farm House Restaurant, at the junction of CA-1 and the Sir Francis Drake Highway.
Water was available in several pools along both the West Pinto and Spring Creeks.
When we left the Banff Springs Hotel that afternoon, we were perfectly relaxed and ready to move onto the next adventure: the Banff Gondola, to the top of Sulphur Mountain.
Another mile up the road was Potato Lake, a small pool of clear water surrounded an amphitheater of pine trees.
After much consideration, though, John finally decided to take us back to Dane Canyon by way of the U-Bar Trail #28, only this time, we would go in from the opposite direction.
From the saddle, the trail begins a series of steep switchbacks into the canyon through a grove of leaf-bare trees that were getting ready to bloom.
At long last, after two solid hours of hiking, we made it to the summit of Picacho Peak - second time ever for John and me, first time ever for Mary!
From the first summit, the trail dipped into a saddle then climbed gently up to the second summit.
After passing through Klondyke, we drove through the nature conservatory, where the road narrows as it winds through a thick canopy of trees.
By the time we reached the wilderness boundary, Mary was calm enough to ride once more in the backpack.
Bluff Springs Trail then drops into scenic Barks Canyon(1.5 miles).
The snow caused the van to slip to the right, towards the edge of the cliff, so John had to pull forward then try again, this time steering to the left to avoid the ice...
Mary stands at the trail junction with the West Pinto Trail #212.
As the trail reaches the valley floor, it levels out as it begins to meander through vast, green prairies and thick, virgin forests.
While looking for trails to hike between Payson and Overgaard, John discovered that there was a new trail system in development within the Payson town limits, called PATS (or the Payson Area Trail System).
Take Bolinas Road to Mesa Road and turn right.
The last 4 miles of this trip are through 'The Narrows'; this is a beautiful area where 600 foot walls tower over you as you wade through the river.
The trail is single track through a hardwood forest.
The next day, as the storm clouds rolled in over Eloy, bringing cold, winter-like weather to Arizona, John and Mary and I packed up the motor home and got ready to head back to Phoenix.
The trip sounded like a real challenge: A 10 mile hike on the Bell and Apache Maid Trails, followed by descending 7 water falls in Waldroup Canyon and then bushwhack, wade and swim through 20 pools in Wet Beaver Creek.
The Hell's Gate Trail follows FR 839 (and some trail) for four miles, at which point the trail enters into the wilderness area.
At this point, we were hiking the Rogers Trough Trail, a 4.5-mile long trail that would take us to the cliff dwellings at Angel Basin.
We were surrounded by purple-gray, snow-capped mountains and wide, green meadows and sparkling lakes and creeks and tall, majestic pines.
The winter had been especially wet that year, and as a result, we not only got a good snow pack in the high country, but the whole desert was in bloom.
For the next two miles, the trail wound through the beautiful desert landscape, occasionally descending into washes then climbing back out again.
The trail itself is 3.5 miles in length (seven miles round trip) and is in the same general area as the Barbershop Trail.
The wide trail on which we had been hiking had now faded into a single-track foot path that followed along the ridgeline, on a dry, grassy hillside that overlooked the city.
The road climbed up the bajada of a hill and was steep and narrow in some places.
The lake itself is tiny and hidden away among tall lodgepole pine trees.
The trail meanders through a very nice forest for a quarter mile then crosses a small drainage in the area of Pinchot Spring.
This time, she rode the trail easily and even passed me on the hills.
However, visitors can still walk a quarter mile down the road and enjoy this beautiful area, which is lush and filled with wild flowers in the summer time.
First, we had to scramble up a twenty- or thirty-foot wall to reach the first ledge.
From this 'white-trash paradise' the trail goes 0.2 miles to a gate.
Beneath the sheer walls were acres upon acres of pine and fir trees, in thick groves, cascading down the flanks of the canyon.
It was in Nutrioso that we first saw Escudilla Mountain: a 10,900-foot high bluish-colored mountain on which Escudilla Wilderness area, closed to all motorized vehicles, is located.
Going up the Pinal Mountains Our drive took us from an elevation of 4,000 feet, through grasslands and high desert foliage and shrubs, to ponderosa pine trees and cool, mountain air at an elevation of 7,000 feet, along a windy-twisty, graded light-duty road.
We also saw several blacktail deer, grazing along the shoreline.
It is home to thousands of species of plant life, from herbs and flowers to giant trees and cacti in all shapes and sizes.
From the second lake, the trail began to follow a ridgeline, high above lakes three and four.
One of our stops was at the Crooked Creek Park in Chapin, an immaculate city park with hiking trails, picnic areas, and a nice playground.
What we did remember was that the West Pinto Trail was an impressive and easy hike leading to a place called Oak Flat, a large flat area covered with manzanita trees, in which there were several places to camp for the night.
Il Centro is located on the corner of Napa Street and First Street.
There is no trail, so hikers must go cross-country through the desert, across the bajada (the slopes at the base of the mountains).
when I left her house to begin my long drive up the Catalina Highway.
At 0.7 miles, the trail emerged from the rain forest and into another grassy meadow.
From the junction, cross back over the end of the dam to the parking area.
On Friday, we would hike the Margie's Cove Trail in the North Maricopa Wilderness Area, and on Monday we would do a cross-country hike through the South Maricopa Wilderness Area.
There are several camping areas in LaBarge Canyon.
The trail ended at a small cove, where Alamere Falls dumps water into a stream that flows into the ocean.
There are facilities and picnic areas all along this trail, as well as mile markers to indicate how far you have traveled.
His timing couldn't have been more perfect, because at that exact moment, only a hundred yards from the dock, the speed boat ran out of gas!
Heather at Pinchot Cabin The Fred Haught Trail began on an old Jeep road that had been closed by the Forest Service to prevent vehicles from entering the area.
On Friday evening, John and I left work early so that we could beat the rush hour traffic heading out of town.
About halfway up the trail, we came to the point where the forest service had stopped clearing away debris.
Watching the waves on the windward side of Maui.
Although this hill couldn't have been more than twenty or thirty feet tall, it did give us a nice vantage point, from which we could nothing but flat, open desert for miles and miles.
Once at the top of the ridge, the trail then descended towards the trail junction, where the loop began.
As the trail rejoined the creek, we reached a large flat area along the creek.
On the other side of the fence, the trail continues through a lush, riparian area filled with mesquite trees.
Upon reaching the junction with the Terrapin Trail, we continued along the Bluff Springs Trail as it went down towards Crystal Springs, where we found the junction with the Dutchman Trail.
From there, we took Harquahala Road to Courthouse Rock Road, then turned onto Arlington-Clanton Well Road, which followed the western edge of the wilderness area.
Turn east onto FR 104 and follow this good dirt road 1.3 miles to FR 413.
From Tortilla pass take Rogers Canyon Trail (#110) down to Angel Basin (nice camping area) and the junction with Frog Tanks Trail (#112).
Except for a few short climbs, the trail remains relatively flat as it winds through a wide variety of foliage: from bright, vast aspen groves to sparse ponderosa pines and grasslands; from wide open meadows to dark forests of dense pine trees and tall, wet ferns.
The crystal clear water shimmered in the sunshine as a cool breeze blew ripples onto its surface.
Mary & Heather at Horton Creek The trail continued to traipse along the grassy creekside for another quarter of a mile; then, it rejoined the road.
The overgrown trail crosses the creek several times and there are no cairns or other directions.
The jeep road edged along a very large, green meadow that was lined with tall ponderosa pine trees, next to the canyon wall.
Instead, we would head home early, after a short visit to Montezuma's Castle National Monument.
Having already hiked three frustrating miles prior to this trail, I wasn't ready for more uphill hiking.
Fern Gully is a scenic drive through a thick, cool grove of tropical trees that have grown so tall that they create a canopy over the road.
In Arches National Park (just north of Moab, UT), take the main road 16.7 miles to the Sand Dune Arch parking area.
This pool had a rocky bottom, and the water was from the YS River.
The plan was to break camp early, so that we would have time to hike the Veit Springs Trail before going home.
Almost immediately, we entered into the Four Peaks Wilderness Area, making that our twenty-ninth wilderness area explored (nearly one-third of Arizona's wilderness areas!
Camp Lo Mia, as we found, was a huge camp, complete with cabins, picnic tables, fire rings, and even amphitheaters for church services.
We have bought a lovely home in the Paradise Valley area, near 40th Street and Thunderbird.
The trail continued on the other side of the creek and immediately began its ascent up canyon wall.
The Pine Creek Trail is a moderately easy loop if you go north from the trailhead, a little more difficult if you start south.
About 1.5 miles form the trail head was an area that had several camp sites.
The trail begins at a picnic area, with stone picnic benches and grills.
miles you will begin climbing along a drainage.
Walt pointed out some of the various striations in the rocks, large boulders that were moved by the glacier, even areas that were cut when the glacier receded.
we arrived at the Wing Mountain Snow Play Area, just off of US 180 - this was the place we always came to for our snow-play needs, even though the area was always crowded.
For the next 1.2 miles, we followed Cedar Creek through a dense cypress-tupelo forest; the trail was still flat as could be, and Mary was hiking very strong.
Beginning at an elevation of about 5,800 feet, the trail traipsed through a landscape of desert shrubs - creosote and mesquite and other prickly plants.
The Hailstone Trail climbs out of Rhyolite Canyon and soon follows a rocky shelf high above the canyon, for 0.8 miles.
Situated in the West Clear Creek Wilderness Area in the Coconino National Forest, the trail winds through a beautiful forest riparian area as it follows Clover Creek for two easy miles upstream, with several nice campsites along the way.
Lined with snow-capped mountains and and newly-green aspen trees, Lockett Meadow was simply stunning: a beautiful place to camp, to hike, or just to enjoy nature at its finest.
As we left the stables, we rode out onto a trail that paralleled the road that went past Cave and Basin National Historic Site, which, of course, we had visited two days earlier.
Todd let Suzanne, Lori and Megan out of the car at the picnic area then drove away to find a place to park further up the road.
As we first entered the wildlife refuge, we drove through a desert in bloom, with green grass and wildflowers sprouting all along the desert floor, and bright green leaves growing on every mesquite tree and ocotillo branch.
Twelve miles north of Seven Springs, twenty miles north of pavement, thirty miles from a service station, disaster struck.
At 1.6 miles, the trail reaches the Watershed Cabins that are owned by the City of Flagstaff.
After the cave, the trail continues through varying areas of spruce and aspen.
Then, we came to a game trail that took us deeper into the canyon, through prickly plants, soft sand, and large boulders.
The trail follows along the creek, under a canopy of sycamore trees.
We had read all of the literature on this trail and found that it was a relatively easy trail, eight miles in length (sixteen miles round trip) with only a seven-hundred foot elevation gain.
John crosses the border The trail ends at the barbed wire fence; at this particular point, there is a monument, shaped like the Washington Memorial, which marks the Mexican border...
From the trail junction, the Dutchman Trail follows First Water Creek and crosses it several times along the way.
So on we went to Plan B. After more research, John came up with a trip in the Chiricahua Mountains, in southeast Arizona.
Then, we drove one more time into Apgar Village, to go to the visitor's center.
Take the forest access road 0.5 miles to the junction with FR 522 (Lockett Meadow Road).
Next to the river, there was a large white van parked on the path, as well as twenty or so people dressed in swimwear and life jackets.
The sledding hill wasn't very good - in fact, it wasn't steep enough to build up any sort of speed - but John and Mary had a fun time towing each other down the hill.
We proceeded to the day use picnic area, where there were several immaculate stone picnic benches in a clean, well-maintained area next to the beach.
miles, the trail becomes less steep and continues to climb to the wilderness boundary.
Maybe one day we'll return to the area and take the Lone Pine Saddle road all the way to the top or hike the many trails in the area.
This short trail takes hikers on a flat but sandy trail to a beautiful arch, hidden within several giant monoliths.
This is the first place where the cables are necessary, because the rocks here are slick from erosion and the grade is steep.
The outside seating area was a series of stone ramadas, overlooking a vast garden of flowers and giant trees.
From the Inner Basin, the trail continued along a forest access road that was closed to all motor vehicles (except for official City of Flagstaff vehicles, of course).
We ate some high-energy snacks (carrots, Pria bars, and goldfish crackers) and rested under the shade of the pine trees.
The trail then ascends a small ridge and continues south descending and climbing over several low ridges.
At times, we had to drive under a thick canopy of trees; other times, we could see the beautiful rock formations on the walls of the canyon.
Our group prepares to hike on Mount Graham The trail began next to the horse corral, where there was a water tank that looked like a keg of beer and a wooden trail sign.
Our return hike was, of course, more of the same: boulder-hopping back down the creek, until we met up with the Dutchman Trail again.
miles from the trailhead you will see Anazazi ruins in some caves above the north bank of the creek.
This part of the trail was shaded and cool, and the trail itself was wide enough that John and Mary were able to play ball.
It was time to go to Plan B: pack up camp, drive into Strawberry, and stay at the Windmill Corner Inn.
In the early days of Arizona's history, Crown King was a silver mining town; and the road to Crown King was in fact the old railroad route used to haul goods up and down the mountains.
Lotte had recommended the Peachtree Rock Trail, a three-mile loop trail near the town of Edmund.
We also found the Hummingbird Garden, which is a scenic walk through a beautiful garden of desert foliage, in which several hummingbird feeders have been hung.
The desert landscape was lush with saguaros and other species of cactus, all swollen from the winter's rains.
In this area, lovely ferns and wildflowers dot the landscape, and small meadows are visible every so often along the creek.
This part of the trail is very easy going, as it winds through cool aspen forests along the boundary line of the Kachina Wilderness Area.
Hiking up the steep slopes of Lennox Crater Taking with us one bottle of water each, John and Mary and I began the short but very steep hike up to Lennox Crater.
After checking the topographical and Forest Service maps, John came up with the perfect solution: we could camp near the line shack!
We then continued north on SR 87, past Pine and Strawberry, to the Mogollon Rim.
The best one we found were on a high bench on the left bank of the river approximately 4 miles from the springs.
From there, it meandered through the bright green desert foliage, all the way to the state park boundary.
From the trailhead, cross the boulder-filled Dry Creek and look for the metal sign post that says Secret Canyon and the trail register.
It is located near Playa Elegante, across the street from Manny's Beach Club, which used to be one of our favorite lunch spots - that is, before the fence went up - and it is a good place to get a good American breakfast with a little Mexican appeal.
Equipped with our Apache-Sitgreaves Forest Service map, the five of us left the cabin to try to find the General Crook Trail.
The trail ends at a trail junction, where several different trails branch off, one of which continues all the way to the top of Mount Peeley.
The plan for the day was to hike the Houston Brothers Trail #18, which begins at the Fred Haught Trailhead, near the junction of Forest Roads 95 and 139A. The Houston Brothers Trail - along with the Barbershop Trail, the U-Bar Trail - are all part of the Cabin Loop Trail System, in which hikers can find three old forest cabins that were once used by the forest service to house rangers during periods of high fire danger.
According to John, there weren't really any other places to camp along the U-Bar Trail, not even in Barbershop Canyon, which meant that cutting our trip short was not an option.
The first hundred feet is a steep climb up to the ridgeline; then, as the trail enters into the Pusch Ridge Wilderness Area, it follows the contour and meanders through ponderosa pines and oak and sycamore trees.
A half mile from the first gate, the trail ends in a large parking area that is the west trailhead (elevation 6050) for this trail and the Little Yeager Canyon Trail #533.
Water from snowcaps on top of the Continental Divide was pouring down crevices on the mountains, onto the highway and beyond, creating waterfalls of every size: from big, gushing waterfalls and light showers (like the Weeping Wall), to tiny trickles.
miles from the picnic area the Blacketts Ridge Trail heads to the east.
After leaving the corral, the trail crosses the creek just before the junction of Reavis Canyon and Whitford Canyon.
After a quarter of a mile, we reached the trail junction with the Second Water Trail #236; this trail would take us on a very gentle climb up to Garden Valley, located about 1.5 miles from the trailhead.
Nearby, a 20-foot waterfall cascades down.
when we left the house and headed north on I-17, towards Flagstaff.
On top of this hill, he discovered an arch, as well as several small windows in the rocks.
At this point the trail crosses over to the west side of the creek.
YS Falls is another popular tourist destination, situated on the YS Estate, which was originally a cane farm, a factory, and a logwood farm.
As we left the Lower Falls, the trail began to climb towards the Upper Falls, which were about 0.8 miles away.
After the switchbacks end, the trail travels through a flat forested grove.
On the other side of the creek, the trail continued on, along a ridgeline above the creek.
The Sno-Coach followed a graded road on the ice to a large area that was surrounded by blue safety cones.
That was when we found treasure along the trail: a small cave, butterflies, and even a pink tree!
After a quarter of a mile, Trail #47 branches off to the left.
The Weatherford trail is an old road that was built in the 1920's to ferry cars to the upper part of the San Francisco Peaks.
That caused us to lose the trail several times, so we would have to stop and look around for the trail markers in Autumn leaves along the West Webber Trail #228 order to find the path again.
Then, at the very end of the trail, we found, as John had promised, a well-manicured trailhead: a large parking area, surrounded by a low fence and marked with trail signs.
After cleaning up camp, the four of us jumped into the van, and we drove down the Control Road to Highway 87 then up to Clint's Well to buy some snacks for the road.
Though it was a good guess, he was proven wrong when we came to the last slot canyon: the one that was only one meter wide and full of water!
To the left, Stoneman Lake Road continues on towards the small mountain lake and eventually intersects with Forest Highway 3 (Lake Mary Road).
From the trailhead the trail head east between two small hills.
What we learned is, to get to Haleakala National Park from Lahaina, take Highway 30 to Maalaea, then merge onto Highway 380, towards Kahului.
The Kachina Trail ends at the Weatherford trail after 6 miles (elevation 8788).
Established in 1670 as 'Charles Town' (named for Charles II of England), the settlement became a bustling port for the Atlantic trade routes.
From there, we continued east on I-10 towards the town on San Simon, which, as Jackie had indicated in her letter, was our last chance to fill up the Jeep with gas, as there wasn't another gas station around for many, many miles.
We emerged from the forest of aspens into an open area, with dried grass and sparse pine trees.
The trail description that John read stated that the trail would end up in a meadow, just within the boundaries of the Kachina Wilderness Area.
Continue on Catalina Highway until you reach the town of Summerhaven, at mile marker twenty-five.
But first, we had one more place to see in Moab, Utah: Arches National Park, located only a few miles north of Moab, along US Highway 191.
For the first half mile the trail heads southeast until it reaches the wilderness boundary (.
About two miles into the trail, we found it: a huge, flat boulder in the middle of Oak Creek - a picture perfect spot for a romantic picnic.
Three little caves in Paria Canyon Around the second mile, we came to a series of little caves, some of which were just big enough for one person, others for two people.
From the parking area, the trail stars across the road.
That trail was the Sinkhole Trail #503, a half-mile long trail that, as the name suggests, leads to a sinkhole.
Turn right onto Highway 288 and drive north for approximately 19.7 miles to the old Sierra Ancha Experiment Station Headquarters.
You will see a blaze on a tree in this grove and will be able to see where the trail heads off back into the forest.
Upon our arrival, John and I geared up and hit the trail, which begins on an old jeep road that descends all the way to Fossil Springs the wilderness area, at which time the trail narrows as it approaches the springs.
The actual summit of Mount Peeley was still five hundred feet away and another hundred foot climb up the rocky slopes of the mountain.
Once we crested the second summit, we followed the trail down the ridgeline, just below the Brown Mountain summit.
One particular wilderness area that had always intrigued John was the White Canyon Wilderness Area, located about ten miles south of Superior, near State Route 77.
The trail soon curved around the mountain, putting us at the bottom of that long, steep climb to the saddle.
As we climbed the ridgeline, we came across several young people wearing orange jumpsuits with Coconino Forest Service badges; they were performing trail maintenance.
According to the trail descriptions that we had read, we would not actually summit Brown Mountain (the third summit), but we would crest the first two.
This would be our first time on this trail since the Cave Creek Complex Fire had torn through that area last summer, so we hoped that we would be able to find a campsite within the first three miles of the trail and that the water in the creek was still relatively clean.
After successfully crossing the creek, we continued to follow the trail for another mile, at which time the path began to lead away from the creek.
The trail begins at the trail registry, just beyond the Hell's Canyon wilderness signs.
We drove two miles back up the highway to that first road, turned onto it, and learned that it was indeed the road to the Mail Trail Trailhead.
He climbed up to the top of the hill next to our campsite and continued to go south until he found an old jeep road that he described as a 'grass highway'.
There, the two-lane highway entered into a forest of pinion and juniper trees as it took us closer and closer to the national monument.
When full, the flood basin below the dam could be the largest lake in Arizona, passing the capacity of Lake Roosevelt, but that has never been the case.
We considered several options - FR 147 from Highway 87 to Potato Lake, Buffalo Park in Flagstaff, the Payson Area Trail System (PATS) - until John found an actual mountain biking trail that we had to try: the Willow Springs Bike Loop Trail #535.
Hiking the Margie's Cover Trail The trail did not stay in the wash for very long; it soon left the wash again and headed up and over some small hills.
Between Reavis Saddle and Reavis Ranch, the trail drops a mere four hundred feet over three miles, making it a very gentle downhill hike.
Gardner Canyon Road took us to FR 163, where we found the parking area for Kentucky Camp.
After stopping in Camp Verde to use the facilities, we continued east on SR 260 for about 25 miles, looking for Forest Road 9247B...
At the end of FR 642, we came to the trailhead, where there was a large parking area surrounded by boulders and a kiosk with trail information.
Most roads in national parks are dirt roads, so the drier the ground, the easier it is to get around.
She has worked at several luxury resort spas, including Alvadora Spa at Royal Palms in Phoenix, and owns Red Lotus Skin Care Studio in Ellenville, NY.
You end the walk by heading inland to cross the tidal river Braint over a set of large stepping stones.
After 100 yards turn left, go under the bridge to the church car park.
Coastal Enhancement Walks Schedule 2012 Wednesday, July 11th: Estuary and small coves NW of Llanfairyneubwll Meet: At Estuary at end of road at 10am Directions: Take B4545 from Valley towards 4 Mile Bridge, cross the railway line and shortly after passing over the A55 take a left turn down road to estuary Grid Ref: SH 297776Sat Nav: N 5316'05" W433'18' Leaders: John and Gillian 01248 712793
Moel y Don is signposted at the first crossroads.Turn left, continue to the car park.
Turn left immediately after Amlwch Town sign on A5025 from Benllech, follow signs for leisure centre and Lastra Farm.
Turn left into Ravens Point Road, and the point is about three quarters of a mile ahead.
Tal y Foel, the old ferry point between Anglesey and Caernarfon, is on the south-western tip of Anglesey, close to Newborough Forest.
This section of the path begins along the shore, then heads inland slightly through woodland.
Head into Holyhead, turn left by the silver railings.
Section 10 - Aberffraw to 4-Mile Bridge (Valley) Bus service 25 passes between Aberffraw and Holyhead every 2-3 hours.
From A55 take J5 to Llanerchymedd turn left at Trefor Crossroads, 1st right, house on right .
Sandy beaches, forest walks, Bird-watching, historical sites within easy reach.
The path passes burial mounds, hut circles, forts, holy wells, churches, brickworks and other industrial edifices.
Left at staggered crossroads in village on road to Talwrn.
We walked along sea cliffs, sandy shores, rocky shores, woodlands, dunes, marshes, mountains, grasslands - I am sure I am forgetting something!
Includes generous herbaceous borders, developing sloped woodland garden, pergola, pond (unfenced), gravel garden, sloping lawns, dry stone walls and paths.
Garden 1 mile on left at bottom of small dip.
We walked along sea cliffs, sandy shores, rocky shores, woodlands, dunes, marshes, mountains, grasslands - I am sure I am forgetting something!
Penmon Point - rocky shore, off-shore island, extensive scrub, migrant birds, sea birds, grey seals 8.
Low rocky cliffs follow to lead you into Amlwch Port.
You begin at sea level taking in the eastern half of Red Wharf Bay, joining the top of a sea wall for a 500-metre stretch.
This section of the path begins along the shore, then heads inland slightly through woodland.
Breakwater Country Park, Holyhead The Isle of Anglesey Coastal Path passes through some of the island's most interesting and varied landscape.
It passes through landscape that includes a mixture of farmland, coastal heath, dunes, salt-marsh, foreshore, cliffs and a few small pockets of woodland.
Take the A4080 from Llanfair PG into Newborough then turn left opposite the Spar Shop.
Within one mile of water sports, 18 hole golf, tennis, riding, fishing, walking.
This section of the path takes you through a National Nature Reserve where you'll enjoy dunes, conifer forest, and huge expanses of beach leading to the delightful island at Llanddwyn.
Or places like Holy Island on the western tip of Anglesey.
Description: 7 acres, child-friendly garden, in rural location, surrounding C17 house now run as school.
The Countryside Council for Wales looks after more than 50 national nature reserves throughout Wales.
A quiet location  mile from picturesque village with excellent amenities, safe sandy beach, harbour, fishing, boat trips, well maintained inland walks and Anglesey Coastal Path and cycling trails.
Cottage garden with modern twist built on slope which has to withstand wind and salt In the press: Amlwch Council Garden Competition, Best Garden and Overall Winner Facilities: Refreshments: Home-made teas
There's rather a nice view from a grassy bank overlooking the sea near Aberffraw.
Work still ongoing, but much to see incl valley garden with waterfalls, large walled garden (now an ornamental garden with herbaceous planting) and early pit house.
Large, sunny, secluded cottage garden, central heating, small driveway, local shop, footpath to the beautiful blue flag beach.
It passes through landscape that includes a mixture of farmland, coastal heath, dunes, salt-marsh, foreshore, cliffs and a few small pockets of woodland.
Facilities: Wheelchair access, plants for sale In the press: Winner, Cemaes in Bloom Disability information: Gravel paths, narrow entrance to back garden
The term 'high tide' refers to an average high tide; that is between neap and spring tides.
Choose from the heathland courses of Bull Bay, the manicured parkland of Baron Hill and the true links at Rhosneigr's Anglesey Golf Club.
The shore opportunities from Holyhead are numerous - golf, Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty, World Heritage Sites, seal, dolphin and bird watching and castles, lots of castles.
The Isle of Anglesey Coastal Path runs over 200km (125 miles) through some of the grandest coastal scenery in Wales - wide sandy bays and estuaries; intimate coves; dramatic cliffs and rocky islets; sand dunes and forests.
There are numerous established points for shore fishing, starting at Anglesey's main point of entry, Britannia Bridge, and running right around the island to nearby Moel y Don.
One thing you'll definitely notice are the clouds of pink thrift - common in spring and early summer along the west facing cliffs - growing straight out of earth banks adjoining the coast.
A free shuttle bus to the town centre, shopping area and local attractions, is provided for cruise ship passengers and crew.
Also a brackish lagoon with usually good bird life, so we may sneak in a little bird-watching as well.
Holyhead Mountain (highest point on the island), South Stack lighthouse and sea cliffs, sea arches at Bwa Gwyn (Rhoscolyn), Ynys y Fydlyn (Carmel Head), and Porth Wen, Llanddwyn island, Menai Suspension bridge, Britannia Bridge, Llangwyfan (Aberffraw) Llanbadrig and St Tysilio (Menai Bridge) churches, Cemlyn Nature Reserve, and Penmon Point and Priory.
The churches of Anglesey are well represented along Anglesey's shoreline.
Details include bus stops, car parks, toilets, pubs, eateries, and other useful shops, their exact location as well as how far the services are from the coastal path.
Even a beach with a forest attached at Newborough.
End of Stanley Embankment to Gorad Beach (beach option) (SH285 799) Along the northern banks of the Alaw river (SH309821) Porth Trefadog (SH291 861) All of these are accessible apart from an hour around high tide.
Turn left at the square continue for half a mile.
Every year National Garden Scheme gardens across England and Wales welcome over half a million visitors.
The Dingle extends from Cae Pandy (Pandy field) in the west to Pont Plas (Mansion Bridge)in the east, with one of the oldest sections of woodland; Coed Plas (Mansion Wood), extending eastwood behind the church.
Along the way, there's a fascinating range of historic sites - an Iron Age fort, headland church and abandoned industrial workings.
In order to help the coastal path and agriculture coexist, keep your dog on a lead when passing through fields with livestock, and under control at all other times out of consideration to other path users.
Holy Island is 12 square miles of history, sacred places, rugged landscape, nature reserves and archaeological sites surrounded by towering cliffs and beautiful beaches.
Our lakes and rivers offer brown and sea trout, and in our coarse fisheries lurk plenty of big carp - and even the occasional 30-pound catfish.
It is 100 yards from the safe sandy blue-flag beach, ideal for rockpooling, sea-kayaking, bird watching, coastal walks, 2 golf courses nearby, also the mountains of Snowdonia and the ferry to Ireland.
The front door opens to Anglesey's Coastal Path and the slipway to Amlwch's attractive fishing Harbour.
There is no dedicated public bus service operating to and from Anglesey Airport,but some journeys of the Holyhead - Llangefni - Bangor service (4/4A/X4), Bangor - Llangefni - Holyhead Service (4/4A/X4), and the Aberffraw - Holyhead Sevice (25) call at the bus stop within the airport car park.
The Isle of Anglesey Coastal Path is currently 125 miles long and consists of 60 miles of public rights of way (mainly public footpath), 28 miles of public highway, nine miles of permissive path, and 28 miles of other access including National Trust and Forestry Commission land.
The south-western coast is characterised by a series of rocky headlands and intervening sandy bays and dunes that enclose shallow marshes.
Rocky coves merge into steep cliffs that twist and fold all the way to Carmel Head, passing a sea arch and island at Ynys y Fydlyn.
The Dingle is a steep sided gorge formed by glacial meltwater during the last ice age hence one of its Welsh names Nant y Dilyw - Valley of the Deluge.
Technically perfect and constructed to an ingenious "walls within walls" plan, it was the 13th century high-tech equivalent of a spaceship landing unceremoniously on Anglesey today.
Section 4 - Amlwch Port to Moelfre Small cliffs of up to 30m / 100ft from Amlwch Port to Llaneilian, with larger cliffs of more than 30m / 100ft south of Point Lynas.
of days to complete: 12 Towns/villages directly on the path: 20 Possible to complete all sections using public transport: Yes
Section 4 - Amlwch Port to Moelfre Bus service 62 passes between Bangor and Amlwch  hourly to hourly.
Garden consists of mature woodland, underplanted with spring flowering bulbs and rhododendrons, ancient beech avenue leading down to rockery, herbaceous borders and courtyards Childrens activities; garden trails, art and crafts, story telling in the woods Facilities: Wheelchair access, plants for sale, home-made teas; Refreshments: Cream teas
More than long enough to imagine when this strange lunar landscape was a hell of sulphur, noise and danger and when the little port down the road was world-famous for making Nelson's ship copper-bottomed.
Wednesday, July 25th: Traeth y Gribin Meet: Near beach at end of road at 10am Directions: Going north on the A5025, shortly after leaving Llanfachraeth, take left turn signed for Penrhyn, continue towards caravan site and Llanfwrog, at church turn left down road and continue towards beach, with parking at entrance to farm.
The bus stop in Pentraeth is an extra 1km / 0.62 miles from the coastal path at Pentraeth beach.
Llyn Parc Mawr Car Park Newborough Forest (Grid Ref: SH413671) Directions - From the A55, follow the A4080 to Newborough village, continue through the village in the direction of Malltraeth.
There are circular walks everywhere - short, hilly, coastal, heritage, walks beside Roman remains, porpoise and seal watching walks, bat, moth, wildlife and bird watching walks.
Set in unique position in large private garden overlooking seashore and adjacent to coastal path enjoying panoramic views over Red Wharf Bay to Snowdonia.
It means 850 miles of glorious unbroken coastal scenery and no fewer than 125 miles of the new All-Wales Coastal Path is on Anglesey.
The road then passes through broadleaved woodland and there are several car parking bays (free of charge).
The route follows the 2011 Commonwealth Ultra Distance Trail Running Championship course which was an overwhelming success and received the highest acclaim from the Worlds best trail athletes.
Once past Point Lynas the landscape changes, taking in steep terrain with fine views eastwards.
The Countryside Council for Wales looks after more than 50 national nature reserves throughout Wales.
South Stack, near Holyhead Most coastal paths boast dramatic cliffs and the Isle of Anglesey Coastal Path is no exception.
The short section of shore at Red Wharf Bay, just before joining the sea wall is accessible apart from at high tide, for high tides above 30ft / 9 metres.
Play area set in two acres and ample car and boat parking spaces are available.
Local bands will be playing on the Friday Night in the Dublin Packet and Saturday Night at the Branch, and the land train will be running trips from the town centre to the newry beach free of charge on the Friday and Saturday.
Spanish-style patio and laburnum arch lead to sunken garden and lily pond.
Unfortunately a gap in the path means you'll start the next section at Moel-y-Don.
Take the next left for Penrhyn Caravan Park, past the church, and turn left opposite the phone box.
Set back from the road in peaceful grounds with ample parking, yet only two miles from J4 A55 and eight miles from Holyhead Port.
If not, watch the constant sea ferry traffic from Ireland to Holyhead and Liverpool.
Section 6 - Pentraeth to Beaumaris Bus service 50 passes between Llangefni and Beaumaris every three hours.
Implements found at Llyn Cerrig Bach near Valley, remain the finest collection of Celtic artefacts recovered in Wales.
By virtue of their height, scale and sheer size the mountains of Snowdonia dominate the landscape, particularly along the south-west coast.
And its clover-rich fields and teeming seas still produce more food heroes per square mile then just about anywhere else in the country.
Horse riders As with cyclists, horse-riders can take advantage of the road sections of the coastal path, with the added opportunity of using beach sections to make circular rides.
After Pentraeth you drop down to the Menai Straits and the pretty town of Menai Bridge where you can cross the bridge to reach Bangor and head eastwards towards the coastal towns of North Wales.
South of Four Mile Bridge (SH280 782) West side of Borthwen beach, Rhoscolyn (SH270 749) The shore south of Four-Mile-Bridge is submerged for up to an hour around the time of high tide, and Borthwen beach can be affected if reached at the time of a high tide' Section 12 - Trearddur to Holyhead
Afterwards, wandering through the largest area of maritime heathland in North Wales, you might well spot that iconic bird of Anglesey - the chough.
It also has one of the highest concentrations of prehistoric sites in Wales; including standing stones, burial chambers and Celtic hut circles.
You will see coastal heath in many places along the path, but especially on the north-facing coasts.
In one of Anglesey's prettiest villages the sixteenth century Crown and Anchor Cottages overlook the bay and mountains of Snowdonia.
Set on the western edge of Anglesey, the dramatic cliffs, wide seascape and heather-covered landscapes of the RSPB's South Stack reserve offer something for everyone.
Arlanfor is situated on the coastal path and is an ideal base for enjoying walking, fishing, beaches and bird watching.
Snowdonia mountain walks are a mere 30minute drive away and some of the best beaches in Wales are even closer.
Although relatively little of the coastal path itself is accessible by bicycle, there is plenty of opportunity to combine walks along the path with inland cycling.
Although joined to the rest of Anglesey by road and rail bridges, Holy Island is an island in its own right, being separated from the rest of Anglesey at high tide.
However, Holyhead railway station (4 miles further to the west than Valley) has an hourly rail service as opposed to the two-hourly service calling at Valley.
Set within three acres of woodland and pasture with south facing patios overlooking lawned gardens.
At 4-Mile bridge you'll need to walk an extra mile to the bus stop in Valley for this service.
Saturday, September 8th: Several coves between Aberffraw and Porth Cwyfan Meet: Car parking area, Aberffraw Bridge at 10am Grid Ref: SH356689 Sat Nav: N 5311'30" W427'44' Leader: Ann 01407 730577
Routes 8 & 5 follow the same path out of the port town before splitting to go their separate ways in the village of Valley.
A raised walkway, together with the access to it along the shore past Nelson's statue, is accessible apart from an hour around the time of high tide on spring tides.
Cemlyn Nature Reserve Easy access is intended to indicate parts of the coastal path where you will only encounter kissing gates, and not step stiles or ladder stiles.
There is ample car and coach parking at the quayside.
From here we will return to the beach car park along footpaths and lanes.
About 4 miles A moderate walk along the Coastal Path, with a lunch stop at the Pilot Boat; with beautiful sea views and sandy beaches, returning by more inland route.
This refers to the old wool processing plant situated upstream.
Holyhead Station is located within the port and there are direct links to London, Cardiff and the UK rail network.
This Route passes Llynon Mill at Llanddesusant, which is Wales only working windmill and provides an excellent spot to rest those legs.
The Isle of Anglesey Coastal Path falls within a designated Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB) which covers 95% of the coast.
At the top, the path bends back on itself but you need to turn left onto a gravel track.
Directions for meeting place: Once across the strood at Mersea Island, take the left hand turning onto East Mersea Road.
Take the second left as you leave Bexhill Railway station and walk north up Sea Road See story Sea Road - this is not the road that runs back alongside the station.
The footpath, which is clearly marked here, goes off to the left to make a dog-leg round the farm.
Follow to harbour at Burghsluis, turn left into car park at cafe 't Oliegeultje.
Take the right hand path nearest the river and follow it through shrubby wasteland keeping near to the river.
Turn left out of Berwick Station and cross the road to the village shop.
Turn left, following the path marked 'Fairlight Glen, lower'.
Community Base is on your left, just after the junction with North Road.
Turn left across the bridge across the reservoir and continue until you come into Alexandra Park near the steps by which you left it.
Discovery Walk: Folkstone, Mill Point Organisation: White Cliffs Countryside Project Tel: 01304 241806 Location of Walk: Lower Leas, Mill Point Meeting Place: Amphitheatre, Lower Leas Coastal Park, Lower Sandgate Road, Folkestone Activity A short walk to the shore at Mill Point for a spot of rock pooling, have a go at feeding anemones and find finger nipping crabs.
It goes slightly downhill to Newgate Road where you turn right.
Climb over the right hand stile into a field and follow the footpath diagonally across the field down towards a ditch and a big willow tree at the bottom of the slope.
When you reach house number 29 turn right onto Beacon Hill itself where you can see a grassy path going diagonally towards the south east and up the hill.
Return to the end of the drive and turn left crossing the narrow road bridge.
You can keep to this surfaced path or turn left into the woods - much more fun - by the pond called the Hendley Repose and follow the path keeping the water on your right.
Turn left on the tarmac path and follow it until you pass a bench.
From bus stop 'Churchill Square' at the bottom of Dyke Road, walk east to the clock tower, then turn left onto Queens Road.
As you come to the bottom of the Glen, turn left and cross the wooden bridge over the stream.
This includes rubbish left behind on the beach, thrown or washed overboard from vessels.
You can see the bank of the reservoir on your left, but the path you are on will bear right to the far right corner of the field where there is a stile which you climb before turning left onto the track that leads around the side of the reservoir.
See story Linton Gardens and Jack-in-the-Green Take the right fork and it will lead you to the entrance to the park where you turn left and at the junction near the railway bridge, turn right and you'll see the Royal Mail buildings with the footpath that leads back to the station forecourt.
Continue down the road towards St Dunstan's and turn left up Beacon Hill.
Discovery Walk: Camel Estuary Organisation: Environment Agency Tel: 01208 265075 Location of Walk: Through rock sand dunes to Brea Hill Meeting Place: Quarry car park at end of Rock Road Start Time: 9:30 Finish: 12:00 ish Duration: 2.5 hours Details: Come and see the fantastic Camel Estuary at low tide.
After the allotments this track reaches the road, which you need to cross towards a flint wall then bear left around the Kipling Gardens.
Cross the harbour by ferry, before paddling along the tidal shoreline path at high tide.
Take the middle path which goes steeply downhill towards a holm oak tree.
Dove Marine Laboratory, Cullercoat's Bay A Shoreline Discovery Walk looking at plant and animal life along Cullercoats Shore was planned at this site.
Discovery walk: Chesil Beach Organisation: Chesil Bank and Fleet Nature Reserve Location: Chesil Beach and Fleet Lagoon at Portland Meeting Place: Meet at the Chesil Beach Visitor Centre on the Portland Beach Road.
Coastal squeeze' railway line at high tide looking east from Bexhill prior to new coastal defences
Discovery walk: Galway Organisation: National University of Ireland Location: Spiddle Beach, Galway Meeting Place: On Spiddle Beach Start Time: 10.30am Details: Join us to explore the rich shoreline at Spiddle Beach with the help of SCUBA divers and ocean experts.
It also has a beach that's good for swimming at high tide and rock-pooling at low tide.
See story Alexandra Park Turn left and walk along the bottom of the valley, past the waterworks building and two houses keeping left round the miniature railway.
When you come to the bridge, it is worth looking around to the north of it before crossing over.
We will cross Itchenor channel by ferry and then paddle along the tidal shoreline path at hightide.
Follow this along until you come to a right hand turnoff, Bromans Lane, signposted Cudmore Grove Country Park.
Keep on the path nearest the stream up to the Dripping Well waterfall where steps lead off to the left up to the drier track.
Turn left at the cedar and take the wide ride that passes to the right of the municipal barbecue and then a pond and dip where there is an enormous beech tree.
Records show that in the year 1434, 2400 pilgrims left Winchelsea harbour in special barges.
Location: Dingle, Co Kerry Organization: Dingle Ocean World Date: Friday 18th May Time Start: 10.00am Details: A few discovery walks on the foreshore Meeting Place: Dingle Ocean World Contact: Suzanne Hall (00353) +669152111 marabeo@iol.ie Website: marabeo@iol.ie
Start Time: 10:30 Finish: 12:30 Duration: 2 hours Details: Exploring the wildlife of the rockpools, of coastal cliffs at Blackhall Rocks Nature Reserve.
It includes riverside fields and farmland, hedgerow remains of ancient woodland, reedbeds, vegetated shingle and a wonderful mile of rock pools at low tide.
He specialises in the population dynamics of inshore fish and crustaceans and his main study areas are in the Bristol Channel and the Hudson Estuary, New York.
Lear used this landscape and some nearby quarries for part of his painting 'Quarries of Syracuse'.
By bus: There are many buses to the city centre, some will stop on Queens Road or the Railway Station.
Organisation: Medway Swale Estuary Project Where: Isle of Sheppey, Leysdown coastal park - opposite childrens play area.
Walk along the right hand side and when you come to bungalow 11, walk down between the houses on your right into Cedar Close.
Hastings also has a parallel history with other south coast towns from the late 18th century onwards when sea bathing and sea water cures became popular.
See story The Countryside Centre Walk along the path that runs parallel to the road and if it's spring or summer you'll notice the wonderful richness of downland flowers and grasses.
Discovery walk: Margate Organisation: Thanet Coast Location of walk: From Ramsgate to Broadstairs Meeting Place: Meet beside Obelisk (outside casino), Ramsgate Harbour Start Time: 10am Finish Time: 1pm Duration: 3 hours Details: Leisurely 4 mile High Tide Walk along the cliff top and promenade from Ramsgate to Broadstairs.
Ecofayre: Brighton & Hove Organisation: riverOcean Foundation Location: Rottingdean, just east of Brighton Meeting Place: On the beach under the White Horse Pub in Rottingdean Start Time: 12 noon Finish Time: 5pm Duration: 5 hours Details: Join us for a day of pebble-painting, rock-pooling, scuttling crabs, touch tanks, marine lab, labyrinth and stories of the sea...
The earliest record of a stranded whale on a Sussex beach dates back to 1833 when a blue whale stranded near Rottingdean.
Because we view the water environment as an integral part of the wider environment, our projects may focus on other areas (such as a whole river valley, or woodland adjacent to water) from time to time.
The path then becomes a delightful tunnel in a narrow strip of woodland.
Discover walk: Medway Organisation: Medway Swale Estuary Partnership Location of walk: Elmley Nature Reserve, Sheppey Meeting Place: Follow the signs from the A249 to Elmley Nature Reserve Start Time: 10.30am Finish Time: 12 noon Duration: 1.5 hours Details: Come and see the fantastic Elmley Nature Reserve at LowTide.
Clymping Beach Discovery Walk Join John Knight and Jane Corke for an expert hands on exploration of strandline and rock pools around the strange and wonderful Elmer Rocks.
See story The Downs This path comes out onto a chalk downland bank where you will find several varieties of orchid, devil's bit scabious, fairy flax and other specialized plants - often very small - according to their seasons.
The bus stop is by a high brick wall.
Clifftop flowers above Warren Glen
LowTide 2001 in Durham Blackhall Rocks Lots of barnacles, mussels, crabs and the odd fish were spotted by the 5 big and 1 little person who came to this lovely site to explore the fauna, flora and varied limestone geology of this area.
Near the exit of Summerfields you'll find Butcher's Broom, an evergreen shrub with pointed stems with flowers growing out of the centres of what look like leaves but which actually are its stems.
At the end of the playing fields the path takes you into a narrow twitten between conifer hedges and over two more stiles before you climb out onto the road in Upper Dicker.
Exmouth Beach, Exmouth EcoFayre Meet on Exmouth seafront opposite the pavillion.
The path is clear, down the side of the hedge on your left and on into another field.
Where Roedean Way turns north at the corner of a field, there is a footpath continuing east along the boundary of Roedean school grounds.
Arlington Reservoir is an excellent place for bird-watching - ospreys and terns are summer visitors, and there are many geese and ducks as well as swallows and martens swooping low over the water.
The French chased residents, mostly women and children, up this lane to St Giles' church which used to be at the top and there they killed 40 people.
Organisation: Where: Nieuwpoort-Bad, Belgium Tel No: Start Time: 9:30 Finish Time: 13:00 Extra Details: * 9:30 - Guided walk: exploring the world between high tide and low tide in the saltmarshes and mudflats.
From the mill mound walk down across the field towards a stand of ash and sycamore trees, more-or-less parallel to the road which you can hear across the field on your left.
There's a gap between the trees and the hedge - go through and follow the path to the top left hand corner of the field where there's a metal gate.
Meet outside Harbour Office, Itchenor parking in pay and display car park.
The path crosses the field in line with the telegraph poles, continues over another stile and goes in the same direction across the next field, then over a wooden bridge across a small ditch.
Not far beneath the sand and shingle is a large platform of chalk that continues out to sea, exposed in places forming chalk reefs.
Organisation: Thames 21 Where: On the foreshore near Hammersmith Bridge in West London Contact Name: Matthew Loveday Contact Details: 0207 2130160, www.thames21.org.uk
The path leads up some shallow steps and comes to a brick and stone grotto built round a spring with a pool - an early water feature.
The big gothic house on the left is St Bede's school now but was the residence of Horatio Bottomley MP (from the Berwick Station story).
As the walk continues you can see how close the Pett Level fields come to this boundary - once the sea (albeit shallower here than on the north side of the town) came virtually up to this gate.
Along the cliffs you will come across a spreading succulent-type plant with bright green colouring and orange and red fruits in summer.
Chichester Discovery Walk Meet by the gate at far end of West Wittering beach car park (parking fee payable) at 2:00pm for a LowTide theme Walk : Holes!
Discovery Walk: Seven Sisters Country Park Organisation: Sussex Downs Conservation Board Location: The Beach beneath the Seven Sisters Cliffs Meeting Place: At the beach by the cliff end (30 mins walk from the visitor centre) Start Time: 5pm Finish Time: 6.30pm Duration: 1.5 hours Details: Join the Rangers on a 'search and identify mission' on the rocky shore beneath the Seven Sisiters Cliffs.
The Winterbourne stream runs through the reserve and there are brooks with many species of plants and creatures including 2 kinds of frogs one of which makes a tremendous and distinctive racket on spring evenings.
Discovery Walks: A walk out into the inter-tidal area (sea or river) with at least one experienced guide.
Take this path which leads across a field towards Pett Level - once marshes, now pasture.
Furthermore, in 2006 the American government authorized the worlds largest marine reserve northwest of Hawaii, which protects over 7000 species.
Discovery Walk: Blackhall Rocks Organisation: Durham Wildlife Trust Tel: 0191 5843934 Location of Event :Blackhall Rocks Meeting Place: Blackhall - from the A1086 ayt Blackhall village, follow the minor road leading east under the railway bridge.
Samphire Hoe, Dover Discovery Walk Join Melanie Wrigley of White Cliffs Countryside Project for a Seashore Safari across Samphire Hoe.
See story Southerham Follow the riverside path again until you come to a footpath sign indicating the way across the fields towards the Railway Land local nature reserve.
Thrift, Sea Lavendar, Hoary Cress and Sea Heath and other salt loving plants enjoy the extreme habitat which has been very much squeezed by the narrow space between the cliff top and the road.
Alexandra Park is worth an outing to itself - it has a magnificent collection of (some unusual) trees, a large reservoir with lots of birds and a chalybeate spring.
Turn left, pass the pond, and look for the stile next to the gate by the pond.
UK flag The swamp cypress is in the middle of a small wood on the Railway Land.
They moved to Sussex Square in Brighton and set up a school run by Millicent, Dorothy and Penelope.
They were given a site on King's Green quarter near the Greyfriars' hospital on the other side of town but moved to this place in 1358.
Meeting Place: BG Car Park, information board will display where activities are taking place on the beach.
At the Old Town junction past Manor Gardens, take the Hastings Road which goes in front of Quakers Mill and is signed as leading to the parish church.
Take the middle of three tracks and walk in front of Boulder Cottage.
Don't go back up these, but turn left along the road until you come to number 101.
You continue through a small grove of mature oaks and plants and fungi associated with ancient woodland.
There are many Saxon burial sites between the Ouse and the Cuckmere valleys.
There is a cafe and toilets at Glyne Gap, and a coastguards station at Galley Hill See story Galley Hill the highest of the sandy cliff tops and the last one before the flats mark the edge of Bexhill.
Organisation: the River Ocean Foundation (in partnership with Brighton & Hove Council) Where: Rottingdean Beach (100m East of the White Horse Pub, along the undercliff), nr.
In this case, the walk leads westwards along a choice of clear tracks through Whitbread Hollow See story Whitbread Hollow Allotments and then to the cliff edge at Cow Gap (see above).
On the east side of this bank, there are three paths - take the middle one which goes south-east down towards low-growing trees to your left.
Organisation: Where: De Panne Beach, Belgium Tel No: Start Time: 10:30 Finish Time: 16:00 Extra Details: * From 10:30 - A unique tour on an amphibious boat to discover the beach and what lies beyond.
Slightly to the right you'll see an entrance to St Helen's Wood local nature reserve.
The path goes left here and follows the ditch at the edge of the field at the foot of the hill which used to be the coastal cliff.
Guided walk with expert (starting point on de dyke near car park Ster der Zee).
Our aim is to offer people the opportunity to explore and celebrate local inter-tidal sites and other aspects of the sea.
Discovery walk: Margate Organisation: Thanet Coast Location of walk: Botany Bay to Foreness Point Meeting Place: At the top of the slope to the beach by Botany Bay, Kingsgate, Broadstairs Start Time: 7pm Finish Time: 8.30pm Duration: 1.5 hours Details: Free evening walk and exploration along the beach on 'LowTide Day' _________________________________________________
Your path splits into 3 here - take the middle one and continue to a crossing of paths by some low-growing evergreen trees on your right.
Go through the gate and follow the path into the fields where a view of the Ouse valley opens out on your right.
At the corner of the field there's a wooden plank across the ditch and the path winds into a small wood.
The Railway Land Local Nature Reserve occupies land that used to be railway sidings and a freight depot for lines that went to the various quarries and pits in the area.
You will be going about half way round the reservoir at this point in the walk, passing the Fishing Club HQ and the picnic area.
The path takes you up into the Downs where there are slopes of unimproved chalk grassland with lots of plants associated with that environment.
Location: Salcombe, Devon Organization: Salcombe Harbour Authority Time Start: 11.30am Time Finish: around 2pm Details: A circular walk along Kingsbridge and Bowcombe Creeks and back over the hill between.
At this point you can continue in the same direction which is a direct route down past the Water Works buildings and along the road back to Berwick station.
During their long voyages they often cross entire oceans, perhaps colonising the shores of a coral atoll or isolated volcanic island or even reaching here.
But this was not a successful move as Bessie was able to come to this rock on the cliff edge and signal to the boat her lover commanded.
Porthcothan Beach Discovery Walk Meet on Porthcothan Beach, in the top left hand corner facing the sea at 9:45am for a Discovery Walk.
They can still be seen in spring on the cliff tops along the Sussex coast.
Meeting Place: Samphire Hoe Office (signposted off A20 when driving from Dover to Folkstone).
From the cliff tops here you can see Beachy Head in the west and Dungeness to the east.
Stocks in the Celtic Sea, Western Channel, around South West and Western Ireland are in decline.
Cross this field on a diagonal - the finger post shows the angle - heading for the far right (north east) corner.
Discovery Walk: Hastings, Shipwreck Heritage Centre Organisation: Shipwreck Heritage Centre Tel: 01424 437452 Location of Walk: On the beach Bulverhythe , St.Leonards-on-sea Meeting Place: Meet on the beach off Bridge Way, St. Leonards on sea Start Time: 4.30pm Duration: 1hr Details: Walk and talk the story of the wreck of the 'Amsterdam' 1749, still visible at extreme low tides
Ecofayre: Freiston shore Organisation: RSPB Tel: 01205 724678 Location of Walk: Freiston shore RSPB nature reserve Meeting Place: Off A52 Maltoft End, turn right and follow signs for Freiston shore Activity Start time:10am Finish: 4pm Details: A day of family fun on the mud among specially adapted birds, worms, snails and seaweeds.
The river bank here is full of plant, insect and animal life and there is a magical spot where a tributary joins the Cuckmere beneath hoar oaks and alders.
Take the path to your left which leads to a gap in the trees where a wide track goes down between allotments and pony paddocks.
Follow the hedgeline along the right side of this field to another stile and continue, keeping the hedge and metal fence on your right.
The sea came up to the foot of the steep slopes, with a large and sheltered harbour on the north side (where the river and the caravan park are now).
Many cathedrals across Europe had whole 'unicorn horns' on public display.
England's defence depends on the south coast and, from Saxon times, the kings needed the support of the fishermen and boatbuilders who knew and worked in the waters of the English Channel.
Turn right here and follow the path among the giant beech trees.
The beach below the cliffs is unique - formed by the meeting of several different kinds of rock, and the rock pools are full of creatures and plants.
Your path continues down the hill bringing you right up against St Dunstan's hedge.
Turn left, keeping the wall on your right, passing a stone seat and a weeping willow by a pool.
Take the first right which is Cornwallis Gardens then walk up to a crossroads, where you cross and then carry on up Holmesdale Gardens.
Cross over the water at this point and follow the path up the steps on the other side and bear left towards what looks like a walled garden.
This walk is ideal for a summer evening - easily accessible from Brighton but soon bringing you to countryside and a picturesque village with a Saxon church.
The coastguards' advice in this situation is to find ground that is clearly above high water mark - a ledge or an old cliff fall, and stay put until the ebb.
Go through the gate into the next field and walk (leftwards) down into the valley past horse paddocks and sheds and out of the field by the gate at the corner (near the sheds).
Follow the concrete path, still going clockwise, round the reservoir until you reach the gate by the barn owl box and the lane.
The path leads you beside the canal until you come to a little bridge which you cross, then turn left following the footpath sign.
Turn right and carry on in the same direction past the map and gate at the edge of the Country Park area - and walk on up the side of the stream.
Organisation: Thames Estuary Partnership Where: Rainham Marshes Tel: 0207 6795299 Start Time: 10am Finish Time: 12pm Extra Details: A guided walk along the riverside, see the Neolithic Forest revealed, local bird experts, make giant picture of flotsam, investigate minibeasts, pond dipping _________________________________________________
Pass the sewage tunnel vent, and the stile that leads into Roedean school grounds.
Follow the track which heads east between fields, past a landmark pine tree.
You will go under the railway and come out onto the brooks - pasture fields with drainage ditches.
Go through Land Gate and down the narrow pavement towards the junction with the road that goes back to the station.
See story Railway Land Local Nature Reserve and the Snowdrop Inn You can see an old, well preserved signal box in the hedge across the field, and a wooden bridge that takes you across one of the brooks.
Stay near the reservoir until you pass a notice board on your right - here the path goes into trees and veers away from the water.
Enjoying the panoramic view across the Brede valley, follow this path until you reach a lane.
There's a rudimentary stile in the next hedge, and the path continues by a wild-life protected area to a gap in the hedge.
This is the site of St Leonard's church which was once the church associated with the Benedictine 'Black' friars who came to Winchelsea with the king's permission in 1317.
See story Combe Haven and Filsham Reedbeds Cross the river on the next wooden footbridge you come to, turn right and continue down the other bank.
Event: Rockpool ramble over some of North Sands'intertidal rocky shore, looking at the coulorful communities of seashore life that cling to the rocks or shelter within the rockpools of this relatively wave-exposed shore.
You need to cross the golf course to reach the north east corner - nearest to Roedean school - you can see the large, gothic buildings dominating the skyline to the east.
Its building required an aerial 'railway' system to hoist materials (including 720 blocks of Cornish granite) from the cliff top to the beach, and a dam around the work to prevent the tide from flooding the site.
The tops of the sandy cliffs are also of interest, as is the vegetated shingle which lies between the railway line and the main part of the beach.
Follow the path by the boundary fence which doubles back a bit, but don't be tempted to cut through the woods - you'll only end up in someone's garden (guess how I know this?
When the path forks, take the right fork marked to Bohemia and Horntye.
Walks often follow the course of rivers and/or estuaries to emphasize the connection between rivers and seas.
Gideon became a doctor by apprenticeship and spent his spare time hunting for fossils around Lewes and Cuckfield, where sandstone was being quarried for the development of Brighton Pavilion.
The rookery near New Gate can be very noisy and in spring, marsh frogs sing very loudly here in great numbers creating a serious cacophany.
Cross this and follow the path that winds across the field using a wooden plank to cross a shallow ditch and passing a plantation of young willows.
Follow this until you come to a big clearing with a landmark cedar tree.
Cricket was played on Beacon Hill from 1758, the earliest cricket club on record.
When the tip closes, the area will be landscaped and become Pebsham Country Park which will safeguard the small space between Bexhill and Hastings.
It had a big garden and one of the railway lines ran through it on a brick viaduct.
Bear diagonally left uphill across next field towards houses.
When you reach the second crossroads on the track, turn left onto the Houghton Green Highway, a track leading you south-eastwards towards the village of Totterhoe.
Bear left where the track forks.
The Sharpenhoe Group of Properties comprises four adjacent countryside areas to the north of Luton, These are, going from west to east; Sundon Hills, Moleskin and Markham Hills, Sharpenhoe Clappers and Smithcombe Hills.
For a long time it was unclear what caused the Avon to cut through the limestone ridge, rather than run south west through Ashton Vale towards Weston-Super-Mare.
Just before reaching the main road, turn left onto a track through the wooded area.
A path winding through Lower garden Wood at Chirk, Wrexham  National Trust 4.
After a fenced section, the road eventually bears left uphill past Home Wood on the right, to a pine tree at the top.
At gateway, turn left uphill through trees to playing fields then turn right, keeping the fence on your left.
Chirk, Wrexham Download as a print friendly PDF A path winding through Lower garden Wood at Chirk, Wrexham  National Trust
Turn left through kissing gate into field.
Turn left to Bathwick Hill and the start of the walk.
Turn left into Hatfield Forest, at Elman's Green, and on to the Forest Way path.
Find a mile walk in the South West * Walking through the woods with wellies on  NTPL/Rod Edwards
Turn left off the forest track and follow the rocky, and often muddy, firebreak through the pines and down to Lawson Park.
NTPL/David Levenson Situated in the heart of Robin Hood country, Clumber Park is the northern gateway to Sherwood Forest.
Turn left onto this path, which takes you through a wood and up a steep flight of steps.
On reaching Stang End Farm, turn left up the hill on the road between the farmhouse and barns with the classic Lakeland spinning gallery.
Turn left onto this path and follow along untill you reach the Gateway centre.
Keep left of the open pasture, alongside the trees, then when you reach the first left opening, fork left off the Forest Way path and go diagonally left across the pasture to the far side/corner to the trees.
Turn left uphill on road.
Once over the bridge, take a right hand turn through a wall and follow the footpath across the fields and through the gate.
When you reach the river, bear left, towards the forge.
The Palladian Bridge sits much lower in the water than intended after the Octagon Lake was dammed.
Walk uphill and past the farm buildings on your left hand side.
Turn left and head past Upper Acre Farm to meet the Deer Hill Conduit.
Go through the wrought iron gate at the top of the park and either turn left to explore Hare Hill Gardens, or cross the car park and follow the drive out of the Estate towards Prestbury Road.
Continue downhill and through to the kissing gate on your left.
Borrowdale stretches south from Keswick - a great place to start your adventure deep into the heart of the Lake District.
Keep left, the path dips down and hugs the edge of the hill.
At the white marker post bear left, cross the beck and shortly after bear right at the next marker post.
The walk here can again be shortened by turning left before reaching the road onto the path that runs parallel to the road.
Walk diagonally uphill across Codlings Bank and through to the kissing gate in the chain link fence.
On reaching Dunstable Road, turn right and walk a short way passing houses and a barn before turning left onto a track.
Ignore the first track to the left for Coniston and likewise the footpath going left at the foot of the hill.
Cross back over the bridge into the park, turn left following the path crossing over two small wooden bridges.
Three children sitting in front of the South Front at Lyme Park  Alan Novelli
Bear left around the enclosure (7).
Go back out the same way from the trees and turn left along the edge of the pasture and you'll meet the Forest Way path again.
Turn right then almost immediately left (crossing over the ride) on to a smaller path, to Round Coppice, bearing left at a sort-of crossroads.
Explore the mine and see marks left by Roman tools.
Stay on the path as it follows alongside the road a little way above you, bearing left until you reach the junction with the road, opposite the car park.
Cross the road, go straight ahead for a few yards and then bear left, and shortly afterwards bear right.
The sixteenth-century Gate Tower on the West Front at Coughton Court, Warwickshire.
Turn right on road and after 110yd (100m) turn left over stone stile in wall.
Coming out from Shell House, turn right on to the path then follow left over the dam, with views of the lake on your left.
Turn right and over a small bridge, through a hawthorn coppice and bear left to a boundary gate of the lake area.
Turn left to head back to the Stables on the original entrance drive to Gibside or turn right to explore Snipes Dene and our riverside paths.
Cross the dam wall and follow the path left towards Black Moss' other dam wall, then head right and follow the path northwards through one of the National Trust sheep exclosures.
From Wendover railway station: turn right onto Ellesborough Road towards Princes Risborough, after about 2 miles turn left onto Missenden Road, then left onto Dunsmore Lane, uphill to National Trust car park.
Follow this bridleway until the end and turn left on to Chalkrow Lane.
Leigh Woods is situated on the western side of the resulting Avon Gorge.
Arriva 61 Luton to Aylesbury from Dunstable town centre to West Street, at the edge of Dunstable Downs and the start of the Ridgeway Link.
An overview of White Park Bay, Northern Ireland  National Trust / Roger Kinkead White Park Bay, Northern Ireland * Meadow cranesbill  Andrea Hirt Meadow cranesbill also known as 'Flower of Dunluce' at White Park Bay * The sandy beach at White Park Bay, with rocks in the foreground and limestone cliffs in the distance The secluded beach is a fantastic getaway for those seeking some quiet relaxation * White Park Bay beach looking west towards Portbraddan  Andrea Hirt White Park Bay beach looking west towards Portbraddan * Real's Wood white at White Park Bay  Andrea Hirt The Real's Wood white is a rare species to find on the exposed North Coast * Cattle on the beach at White Park Bay The beach is sheltered from prevailing winds and popular to just about everyone
The path leading off the track leads down to meet up with Old Mount Road where you turn left and head back down into Marsden.
Show/HideView north from Chilterns Gateway Centre The view northwards from the Chilterns Gateway Centre is a good place to start and finish your walk.
Passing a gate, follow the path, keeping on the left-hand side of the gill.
Keep to the track as it bends left after passing Gibside's grand stable block on your right (pop in for exhibitions and refreshments).
At the road, turn right, walk roughly 130 feet (40 metres), then take the track on left past Heath Barn.
Turn immediately left, following the wall downhill.
Prior Park Landscape Garden A view of the Palladian Bridge in the autumn  Jim Parry This beautiful 18th-century landscape garden is set in a sweeping valley overlooking Bath.
In autumn you may spot roe deer on the steep-sided valley at this point on the walk.
At Lady's Hill turn right, heading north follow this new flood-bank, and then turn left towards Waxham Cut.
Dogs in the countryside Attingham Park, Castle Ward, Clumber Park, Clytha Park (near Abergavenny) Downs Bank, Lyme Park, Plymbridge Woods, Stourhead Estate are all great places to walk your dog.
The seventeenth-century manor house from the lower garden at Washington Old Hall.
Show/HideStormy Point Spectacular views open north-eastwards across the Cheshire Plain to the Peak District and the Pennines.
Clumber is a beautiful expanse of parkland, heath and woods covering more than 3,800 acres.
Turn left onto the lane (it is narrow so beware of the occasional car) and pass the entrance to Low Bank Ground, followed by Black Beck Cottage and Thurston.
Coastal lowland heath sandy cliffs and beach, rich in wildlife, offering tranquillity and excellent views
Avon Gorge view A wilderness of beauty and tranquillity set against the breathtaking backdrop of the Avon Gorge and Brunel's world famous suspension bridge.
Show/HideStowe's new wooden bridge Installed in March 2011 the bridge is made of oak and is being left to cure for a year.
Follow East Lane for 100 yards, past the public toilets, then left into car park * Facilities: + In Wheathampstead: Public toilets in East Lane, shops and pubs.
At bottom of slope turn left before kissing gate, keeping railings on your right.
Bickerton Hill lies at the southern tip of the Peckforton hills.
Wood and Wildlife Wonders The path that runs from Ashness Bridge back toward Keswick passes under Falcon Crag.
At the heart of this 687-hectare (1,700-acre) farmed estate lies Lower Brockhampton, a romantic timber-framed manor house dating back to the late 14th century.
Carefully make your way across the field from left to the right hand corner past the sewage works, to another stile.
At the top of the slope, turn left alongside the fence.
Woodland paths and grassy farm fields, steep in places and muddy after rain.
Turn left at the footpath waymarker and follow the path through a kissing gate, with a field on one side and fencing on the right.
At the top of the hill, bear left across the field, heading for the next copse.
This semi-detached cottage is nestled in the western end of White Park Bay in the old fishing hamlet of Portbraddan.
Cycle-parking is available at the Monument and Ivinghoe Beacon car parks.
Follow the footpath and turn left into Wellhead Road.
In the centre of this wood is an area of rare chalk grassland, which provides an excellent environment for wild flowers, birds, butterflies and invertebrates.
We've got a range of outside locations such as woodlands, deep gorges, waterfalls and farmland.
They graze on species-rich organic grassland on the Llanerchaeron estate, which supports a wide range of plants, birds and animal communities.
north to the Cheviots and east to towards Newcastle.
Long view of Tumbleton lake, surrounded by low level trees and bushes  National Trust
Look up to the soaring suspension bridge above and the beautiful broadleaf woodland, interspersed with areas of flower-rich limestone grassland around old stone quarries.
Take A1237/A64, then A1036 Tadcaster Road, signed York city centre, turn right after St Edward's Church, through brick gatehouse arch.
Spring flowers bloom in woodland beside a path in The Wilderness, Prior Park.
An area of marshland lies to the north of the park, where in winter and spring this area is allowed to flood for wading birds and invertebrates.
Landscape of fell, meadow and woodland around Coniston Water
In the 18th century the Avon Gorge in Bristol was quarried to produce building stone for the city, stone was taken by boat into the floating harbour.
Walk, cycle or horse ride on our network of footpaths and bridleways through oak and beech woodland, chalk grassland and open commons.
An area of marshland lies to the north of the park, where in winter and spring this area is allowed to flood for wading birds and invertebrates.
Take any path to the left up the slopes of Ivinghoe Beacon.
The oak woods, willow carrs - areas of wet willow woodland - and rocks surrounding the mines include a large number of mosses, lichens, liverwort and fern species.
Discover hidden valleys, rich in limestone flowers and tranquil beech woodlands, interspersed with extensive views over Bath and out towards the Blackdown Hills.
Mobility parking on farm track * Access to dovecote is via a stile and grass field * Step to entrance of building
Woodland around Crickley Hill, beautiful country parkland near Cheltenham
Discover hidden valleys, rich in limestone flowers and tranquil beech woodlands, interspersed with extensive views over Bath and out towards the Blackdown Hills.
From Great Missenden railway station: right onto A4128, left onto Aylesbury Road, then left onto Rignall Road.
When the path forks at a pond, stay left, on the hard standing.
Returning the commons to acid grasslands Large areas of the estate were originally common land, where local people could graze animals.
You may spot cattle and sheep in Park Fields, near the Avenue.
Heath bedstraw Heath bedstraw creeping along the ground  National Trust Tiny white flowers can be found on this ground creeping plant.
Bear left, slightly uphill, heading towards the right of the TV masts.
The courthouse is a fine example of an early 15th-century timber-frame construction, set in an idyllic village.
View over part of Ashridge estate  Arthur Whiting Woodland gives way to chalk downs * View of the vast stretch of green at Golden Valley, Ashridge Estate.
Set in a steep gorge, this place demonstrates the power of water and its impact on industry.
At corner, where field and woodland meet, go through kissing gate and cross field, following woodland edge to your right.
The Home Farm buildings now house our Cow Barn Restaurant, shop, Courtyard Caf, ticket and information office in a state-of the art straw bale building, second hand book shop, toilets and plant sales area.
Access to Horsey Mere via Meadow Dyke from Heigham Sound and river network.
Designated mobility parking in main car park, 75 yards * Accessible horse-drawn carriage rides * Grounds - partly accessible, grass, loose gravel paths and slopes * Drop-off point at 'Coach Halt' * Adapted toilet facilities * Building - ramped entrance.
View across lake towards Corinthian Arch  NTPL/John Millar
Abergwesyn Commons stretch for 12 miles between the Nant Irfon valley in the west and Llanwrthwl in the east.
I recommend you turn left inside the gardens to see the most majestic view in all of the gardens - Stowe House over the lake, framed by trees and landscaping.
Walk along the fence and then turn right, following the edge of a wood on your left, up a path to the top of the hill.
The burial mounds bathed in the red sunset  NTPL/John Millar Burial mounds
The oak woods, willow carrs - areas of wet willow woodland - and rocks surrounding the mines include a large number of mosses, lichens, liverwort and fern species.
Meadow pipit Meadow pipit  Barry Boswell The meadow pipit is the most common songbird that can be found in upland areas.
th-century Welsh castle, historic house and 18th-century landscape park, enclosing a medieval deer park
The facilities include the Cow Barn kitchen, shop, Courtyard coffee bar and play area all situated in beautiful original Victorian farm buildings.
Most of our work takes place at countryside properties and we have recently visited :- Dovers Hill (near Chipping Campden), Littleworth Wood (Snowshill), Haresfield, the Sherborne Estate (near Northleach) and Woodchester Park.
Lion Quays  Lion Quays Lion Quays Waterside Resort Set on the Llangollen Canal the Lion Quays Hotel offers restaurant, bar, spa and leisure facilities.
The trail starts from Coronation Avenue car park and goes to the edge of Stokeleigh Camp, along mostly level paths.
The Ivinghoe Beacon on the Ridgeway, Ashridge Estate  Lauran Wise
Turn right on road and after 110yd (100m) turn left over stone stile in wall.
National Trust * The fields at Castell, a traditional Pembrokeshire farmstead and holiday cottage overlooking Fishguard Harbour  NTPL/National Trust Images/Joe Cornish Castell Farmhouse, Fishguard
You'lll find the National Trust car park approximately 50 yds (46m) past this on your left hand side By train: The nearest station is Alderley Edge which is approximately two miles from here.
The cottage may once have been on the edge of industrial Tyneside, but it's now a tranquil oasis surrounded by meadows, chalk grassland, woodland and riverside.
Coombe Hill and Watlington Hill have parking available near to, and good access to, the surfaced accessible tracks * Bradenham and Pulpit have smaller, more uneven car parks * The car park on West Wycombe Hill is flat but can be slippery in wet weather
Unique arts, crafts and shopping Set in Gibside's historic stables and surrounding woodland, the Garden Shed is a unique arts, crafts and shopping experience...
Show/HideWood-lined path This narrow wooded section of path runs along the side of private land to the left and the River Deben valley to the right.
High sandstone ridge and hill fort overlooking dramatic red sandstone rock houses
Taking care, cross the road and turn left and over a small foot bridge.
The Autumn Circle of beech and field maple sits adjacent to the Summer Chapel and beyond is the Easter Chapel of cherry.
Stackpole Quay, Pembrokeshire Ten holiday cottages nestle around Stackpole Quay, a short walk from lovely Barafundle Beach.
Bourne Mill and the millpond with a swan swimming in it Bourne Mill sitting above its tranquil millpond * An exterior view of Bourne Mill A hazy summer morning glistens over the pale stone mill * An exterior view of Bourne Mill  National Trust Stepped 'Dutch' gables sit on either end of the mill
At this time the fort on Ivinghoe Beacon was a meeting place, a market and a place to keep animals.
The lake at Llyn Cregennan, Snowdonia, with Cadair Idris rising up in the background and reflected in the still water  NTPL/Paul Kay South Snowdonia From Dinas Oleu, the beginning of the National Trust to the magical lakes of Cregennan.
From the main National Trust car park on Macclesfield Road, take the path to the right of the information shelter (the picnic area is to your left).
I recommend you turn left inside the gardens to see the most majestic view in all of the gardens - Stowe House over the lake, framed by trees and landscaping.
It's a challenging 1-mile uphill ride on minor roads to reach the top
Again cross another small beck and ignoring the gate and stile to your left continue on a narrow path.
Take this path and at the first crossroads you can stop and explore the Portingbury Hills Iron Age settlement on your left, at Beggar's Hall coppice.
Where the path rejoins the flood-bank turn right and continue along a large dyke, the Waxham Cut.
Wetland Two lakes, more than twenty ponds and a river create a diverse wetland habitat network at Ickworth.
Children running across a bridge at Hatfield Forest  Richard Daniel
Garden size View of the gateway to the upper lawn at Chirk Castle  NTPL/Stephen Robson The garden is just over 12 acres.
The Stables Learning & Discovery Centre is located at the heart of Gibside's landscape park, about one mile from the main car park.
Explore the wildlife and habitats at Dunstable Downs by following one of our trails.
Show/HideDunwich Heath This significant area of coastal heathland holds the largest East Anglian population of Dartford warblers, with 40 to 45 pairs, as well as breeding nightjars, woodlarks and stonechats.
In the meadow, areas of long grass are deliberately left to provide shelter for small mammals like the short-tailed vole.
The Temple of British Worthies at Stowe  Paul Watson The Temple of British Worthies sits in the middle of the Elysian Fields * The grotto at Stowe Landscape Gardens  National Trust / Stowe Landscape Gardens The grotto overlooking the River Styx * The 'Temple of Ancient Virtue' at Stowe Landscape Gardens The Temple of Ancient Virtue
The grand sitting room in Deben apartment with wooden floors and large bay window overlooking the burial mounds  National Trust
School children orienteering at Killerton, Devon  National Trust, Killerton
The rolling landscape park with a lake, 211 hectares (520 acres) of woods and waymarked trails is a great place to explore the nature and wildlife on this bountiful estate.
Follow East Lane for 100 yards, past the public toilets, then left into car park By bus: UNO buses 620 from St Albans or Harpenden; UNO buses 366 from Luton or Welwyn Garden City; Arriva Buses 304 from St Albans or Hitchin.
The model railways Ormesby is home to the National Trust's only model railways.
Emma Shepherd Dodman Point, boasts the highest spot on the south Cornwall coast * Four people playing cricket at Hemmick beach on a low tide in the summer  Emma Shepherd Anyone for cricket?
A menacing stormy sky hovers over the panoramic landscape on the Clent Hills Enjoy panoramic views of the area from the Clent Hills * A view of the surrounding landscape at Clent Hills looking through the trees Explore wildlife-rich woodland rising up to over 1000 feet * View south with Beatrice Hyde's bench seat and tree, Hereford & Worcester, England Take a walk through the Hereford and Worcester countryside
Maintaining chalk grasslands The heavily wooded, clay-based plateau gives way to the open chalklands of the Ivinghoe and Pitstone hills.
We have also worked at Crickley Hill, Newark Park (near Wotton-under-Edge), Westbury Court Garden and Rodborough Common.
The Palladian Bridge and house at Prior Park Landscape Garden, Bath, Somerset  NTPL/NTPL/Andrew Butler Magnificent views
We will also reduce parking in front of our cafe and make this area into a more pleasant car-free market place.
The 200-year-old wall in Leigh Woods marks the parish boundary between the parish of Long Ashton to the south (formerly the Manor of Ashton) and the parish of Abbots Leigh (formerly...
Keep climbing onto a major track where you should turn left, pass through a gate and on to Low Parkamoor Farm.
Montane juniper on Lliwedd at Hafod y Llan  National Trust Montane juniper on Lliwedd at Hafod y Llan * Traditional slate fence and abandoned mine building at Cwm Llan on Hafod y Llan farm, Snowdonia Traditional slate fence and abandoned mine building at Hafod y Llan * Hafod y Llan Welsh Black Cattle grazing in the hanging bog valley of Bylchau Terfyn.
The pollards are home to rare and uncommon wood decay fauna, while the woodland has a good mix of canopy species with areas of ash, beech, oak and occasional cherry, field maple and small-leaved lime.
Start off with Cat Bells for your route into the central fells leading to Maiden Moor, High Spy, Dale Head, Great Gable, the Scafell Massif and Glaramara.
Designated pathways will lead you through oak, small leaf lime and ash forest.
On reaching the trees and estate road, either turn left and follow the road to the main road at the end or, alternativley, and if weather and ground underfoot permits, turn right for 100yds (90m) then take a footpath on the left across the field towards a wood.
The garden includes yew-hedged garden rooms, bowling green, wilderness gardens and plants for every season; it is also an oasis for wildlife.
Explore the Guildhall garden with its dye plants and roses coming into full bloom.
In front of the bench, at the three-way junction, take the path on the far left along the edge of the tarn.
Pigeons nest in the south-west turret of the Tudor gate tower (direction 14).
Ducks crossing the bridge over the brook at Westbury Court Garden  National Trust/Ellen Clee
Horton's Butcher supply Dunstable Downs with all our meat and they are only 3 miles down the road.
Whipsnade Heath Whipsnade Heath was once an area of open heath but since the decline in sheep grazing, trees and shrub have colonised much of the site.
Show/HideGoldenstone Mentioned in the legend, this large cleft sandstone rock on the edge of Dickens Wood has acted as a boundary marker, or merestone, since time immemorial.
Alderley Edge is a wooded escarpment offering variety and interest including woodland, meadows, sandy soils, rock outcrops and wet habitats.
He fought hard to prevent the estate being swallowed up by city development, but was forced to sell much of the land to London City for housing, including the St Helier estate.
Show/HideTom Gill Beck The titular Tom Gill is the fast-flowing stream outlet from Tarn Hows that rushes through the wooded Glen Mary ravine.
Glorious house, surrounded by gardens, moorland and deer park
When you get to the gate into Deer Shed Wood, look down the hill for a glimpse of the Llangollen canal.
Located at the heart of the estate, our grand 18th-century stable block is home to a quality bunkhouse with two dormitories sleeping up to 36 people.
A view of Blakeney Point landscape, showing boats anchored in the estuary Blakeney National Nature Reserve, one of Europe's longest unspolit coast lines.
Read more about the chimney stack  David Hammond-Williams (National Trust) * The Turbine House is the centre of a hydro-electric scheme at Aberdulais Falls, Neath  David Hammond-Williams (National Trust) Turbine House
Climb over the stile on your left to contine the Skyline Walk and return into Gibside's woodlands.
Meadow brown butterfly on the Isle of Wight  Matthew Oates / NT Summer haze Butterflies flutter and stoats and weasels play.
A bench in the beautiful gardens surrounding Speke Hall  National Trust/Alex Muir
The Old Rectory Rhossili The sole building sitting above a wide expanse of the sandy beach, The Old Rectory is set on a raised terrace in the dramatic landscape of Rhossili Bay with uninterrupted views of the sea and the tidal island of Worm's Head.
This sequence starts with Goblin Combe Oolite in the north, through Clifton Down Limestone, Hotwells Limestone to Upper Cromhall Sandstone at Stokeleigh Camp.
Gibside's woodlands are an important habitat, providing homes to large mammals such as roe deer or badgers, and smaller mammals like bats who live in hollow trees.
The estate covers over 8,000 hectares of high, wild open moorland, dramatic river valleys and 51 hill farms.
A raised view of the East Front of Dyrham Park and surrounding countryside on an autumn day The east front was designed by William Talman, Comptroller of the King's Works * The bucks (male deer) grow new antlers every year  Chris Philips Venture into the park and you're bound to see some magnificent fallow deer * The very popular straw maze at Old Lodge, Dyrham Park  National Trust Find your way out of the straw maze at Old Lodge picnic and play area in the park * The Balcony Room at Dyrham Park, Gloucestershire See how a wealthy civil servant furnished his new house 300 years ago * Take a look at the wonderful C18th ceiling paintings in the Great Hall Take a closer look at the thousands of objects in Dyrham's superb collection * Dyrham's spectacular West Garden in early summer  National Trust June is an ideal time to see some superb perennials in the West Garden * A close up of the interior of the Dairy Room at Dyrham Park.
At the top of the road is the majestic Corinthian Arch, which frames a superb view of Stowe House.
The back of Pitstone Windmill  Ron Dyke
Walk the main visitor route in spring and summer or wait until after the breeding season for more trails to open.
Cheddington station is 3 miles from Ivinghoe Beacon and 2 miles from Pitstone Windmill, by Arriva 64 bus service.
It's a wave created by the tide rising up the ever more narrow and shallow estuary and river.
Giant's Causeway, White Park Bay and Carrick-a-Rede (from left to right)
Converted from two adjoining stone-built single-storey cottages set against a steep wooded hillside overlooking Tumbleton Lake on the 405-hectare Cragside estate, near Rothbury.
Cyclists on the Ashridge estate Ashridge cycle trail Download our cycle routes around the estate and off you go.
Show/HideDeben valley and Rabbit Field View over the Deben valley from the woods, not far from the start of this walk.
Scattered veteran trees, like this yew tree in a parish wall, give clues to hundreds of years constant woodland cover found in parts of the wood.
Bourne Mill is set in tranquil grounds next to a millpond and a bubbling stream.
Mock-Gothic castle sitting on the shores of Lake Windermere with turrets, towers and informal grounds
In the meadow, areas of long grass are deliberately left to provide shelter for small mammals like the short-tailed vole.
The caterpillars of this rare species of butterfly feed only on the kidney vetch plant, which grows in the rich chalk grassland.
Urgent repair and restoration work is needed to the potting sheds, glasshouses, cold frames, and to the kitchen garden's walls and gates.
Join Matthew Oates, our butterfly expert, to discover the butterflies on the beautiful Ivinghoe Hills of the estate.
When you reach the road, continue straight up the road following the Suffolk Coast Path/Beach car park sign, and keeping St James church on your right.
Parson's pond at Ickworth House  National Trust Blue walk A circular parkland walk taking in the church, walled garden and woodland.
yd (100m) across next field, take path bearing right away from main gravel track.
The stable yard provides a small caf, offices for our staff, exhibition space, stalls for craft artists to sell their work, a family picnic area and toilets.
Carry on past the information board until just before the cattle grid where you turn left onto Old Mount Road and then follow the footpath along a track towards Hades Farm until you reach waymark number 15.
Rainbow Wood Fields Some of the ant hills are over one hundred years old  Jim Parry Rainbow Wood gets its colourful name from the arc shape of the woodland.
At corner, where field and woodland meet, go through kissing gate and cross field, following woodland edge to your right.
Pass through a metal gate and at top of hill continue straight across the farm track and on through the narrow footpath between 2 fields.
Children pond dipping from the boardwalk at Dinefwr, Llandeilo  David Bailey
Last sailing at 4pm.Cross Lakes Shuttle, a boat-bus-boat link from Bowness on the east shore of Windermere, via Hill Top and Hawkshead, to Monk Coniston, Tarn Hows and Coniston Pier.
Route map of the sand dune and estuary trail at Portstewart Strand * Directions * Walk route * Bus stop * Parking * Toilet * Viewpoint
Europe's largest power-generating waterwheel at Aberdulais Falls, Neath  David Hammond-Williams (National Trust)
Enjoy the tranquillity of this fascinating self-sufficient 18th century Welsh gentry estate that's centred around the John Nash villa.
Miles of footpaths, bridleways and easy access trails offer breathtaking panoramic views over the Cotswolds, Shropshire Hills and Welsh borders.
Tarn Hows Tarn Hows is a beauty spot with lake and mountain views close to car parking (with toilets).
Leaving the farm on your left, pass through a gate into a field and follow a grassy path with a fence to your left until you reach the next gate.
In the hazy summer days picnic in the gardens or amongst the wild-flowers in the adjoining meadow.
Winter - frosty trails Wonderful winter walks around the estate.
From large herds of fallow deer to tiny shrews, plants and insects, there's plenty to search for when you walk around the estate.
The estate's magical woodlands are rich in plants and wildlife.
Avoid the dangerous inter-tidal area of the estuary due to deep channels.
Hatfield is a rare surviving example of a Medieval Royal Hunting Forest  National Trust Hatfield is a rare surviving example of a Medieval Royal Hunting Forest * Visitors walking through Hatfield Forest, Essex.
The site covers 110 hectares and supports more than half the county's dry heathland habitat.
You can start from Coniston village or one of the other car parks and venture to Yew Tree Tarn, Yewdale, Tilberthwaite and Coniston shoreline - east or west.
Even these days, when it rains heavily over the winter and the single-track approach roads flood, it still maintains that feeling.
Go through kissing gate and bear left diagonally across field.
Where to see our veteran trees In the Tarell valley, a lot of our ancient trees are visible from the old coach road, in the dingles and fields running north from Storey Arms.
The estate covers over 8,000 hectares of high, wild and open moorland, dramatic river valleys and 51 hill farms.
The towers of the magnificent Gatehouse rise up from the water beside the bridge.
A view of Eastergate Bridge  National Trust Eastergate Bridge is a lovely spot in spring and summer * A young man stands on a rock viewing the valley far below on Buckstones Moss, part of the Marsden Moor Estate The landscape is very popular for walking * Close view of gritstone slabs at Buckstones Moss, Marsden Moor.
White Moss White Moss is at the southern end of the estate.
The back of Pitstone Windmill  Ron Dyke Pitstone Mill with a church and houses nestled amongst trees in the distance * The front of Pitstone Windmill, Buckinghamshire  Glenn Smith Pitstone Windmill is one of the oldest post mills in England
After last house turn right across road and follow path uphill through woods.
The beach is also backed by ancient sand dunes that provide a range of rich habitats for bird and animal life.
All around, the scattered rocks and boulders held the tiny fossils of sea creatures and oceanic plant life, perfectly illustrating their previous incarnation as the rocky floor of the Iapetus Ocean.
As well as the glorious woodland at Leigh Woods you can experience the grandeur of Clevedon Court or journey back in time to the Iron age at Cadbury Camp.
On the way you will pass the Gooderstone Water Gardens Show/HideGooderstone Water Gardens In 1970, Billy Knights, a retired farmer in his 70th year, began designing and creating these Water Gardens.
A pagoda and ornamental pond in the Chinese-inspired garden  National Trust Step into the oriental world as you enter the Chinese-inspired garden * The Lime Avenue at Biddulph Grange Garden looking towards the gates.
Continue along the footpath and bear right to join the rising headland path along the left hand field edge, in the direction of a mixed woodland and tall aerial on the skyline.
Interior view of a kitchen at Cwmmau Farm at Brilley on the border between Herefordshire and Wales.
Cross the roundabout with care and head towards Whipsnade Heath car park on your left.
The adjoining land is accessible for wheelchairs and offers great far-reaching views * Pathways - both commons consist of fairly flat grassland, with some naturally uneven gravel paths crossing them.
Coleshill village is part of the Buscot and Coleshill agricultural estates in west Oxfordshire.
At the road, cross directly over and take the path to your left (near to a bench).
The grand sitting room in Deben apartment with wooden floors and large bay window overlooking the burial mounds  National Trust The sitting room
Coniston covers a large area of some of the Lake District's most scenic woodland, water and fells.
Water levels are monitored carefully on the marshes to provide feeding areas for wading birds and sheep used for grazing these areas to provide the variation in grass height that the birds need to nest.
Show/HideFrogs The Oxburgh estate and garden is a good environment for frogs because there's plenty of water nearby (the moat, the pond in My Lady's Wood and the River Gadder), cover in the woods and flower borders, and food in the insects, snails, slugs and worms that live in the garden and woods (direction 5).
Head left, under the underpass, before taking the first path on your left, up the slope, through the iron gate.
Plants The shallow soil depth and lack of nutrients on Dunstable and Whipsnade Downs make ideal conditions for a wide range of rare and exciting plants only found in these habitats.
Ickworths deer herd caught resting in one of our many woods  NTPL/David Kirkham Monument walk This 6 mile (9.4km) walk takes in the Obelisk, a monument to the Earl Bishop, 4th Earl of Bristol.
Cheltenham NTV Group (ANTS) The Cheltenham NTV Group(ANTS)support local National Trust places including Newark Park and Westbury Court.
PLEASE NOTE: there are no National Trust parking facilities around Bath Skyline.
The old buildings, meadows, ponds and trees at Gibside make a fantastic habitat for seven different species of bat.
It is also a great place to spot moorland birds such as golden plover, grouse, curlew and twite, which all breed here in good numbers.
Birds The range of habitats at Ickworth means our estate is home to an array of birds.
Day visit * Due to the nature of the estate (open to general visitors) it is not possible for coaches or cars to access the estate other than in the car park area.
view of quarry five from the downs on the otherside of Avon Gorge  Bill Morris
The old Pennine Way runs down White Moss to Black Moss.
Large areas of woodland, interspersed with chalk grasslands, lend themselves to the wide variety of wildlife here.
The gatehouse has a strong community presence in Westbury on Trym acting as a meeting place for the local parish church and community groups.
The award-winning gardens contain clipped yews, herbaceous borders, shrub and rock gardens.
The grazing marshes on the Ness are flat and open, with pools of water that expand and contract through the season, providing habitat for breeding birds.
The summit and surrounding area of May Hill consists of a wide expanse of open grassland, bracken and gorse with boggy areas and pools.
And ever since, this narrow gorge at the mouth of the Dulais River outside Neath has been at the heart of the Welsh industrial story, thanks to its bountiful supplies of coal, timberand water.
Still descending, pass Brantwood estate gates (the first are metal, the second wooden), and enjoy the long gentle stroll through lovely woodland to the road.
In June we close Farm Walk so that does and new fawns are undisturbed * In early summer groups of bucks often spend time grazing near the hall * The nutrients go into growing antlers * The bucks' antlers will be fully grown by August * Whilst they're growing the antlers are covered in 'velvet'
This means that the area's archaeology is protected by law.
Burton Cliff at Burton Bradstock in Dorset.
Photo of girl lying on rocks at Giant's Causeway  Brian Morrison What will you discover at the Giant's Causeway?
View of garden with wild moorland in background at Lyme Park  National Trust / Alan Novelli Beautiful views of the wild moorland from the garden * Three children sitting in front of the South Front at Lyme Park  Alan Novelli Have fun in the garden, why not bring a picnic?
Ty Isaf National Trust shop in the heart of Beddgelert village  National Trust
The striking Anglo Saxon mask motif on the front of the exhibition hall at Sutton Hoo, the Anglo-Saxon royal burial site, Woodbridge, Suffolk.
Facilities Many of our sites provide facilities for you and your dog, such as shady parking space in car parks, water for drinking bowls and hitching posts where dogs may be left.
When you reach a major track, follow the direction shown on the sign for the Ashridge Boundary Trail and turn left going downhill.
The Apostle Garden and the Manor House at Lytes Cary in Somerset  Lytes Cary Manor staff/volunteers Come through the Apostle Garden and discover the manor house * The Bog Garden at Lytes Cary Manor in Somerset  Lytes Cary Manor staff/volunteers There's a beautiful display of colours in the Bog Garden * A statue in the centre of a fountain in the Pool Garden at Lytes Cary Manor Admire the Pool Garden with its fountain * Lytes Cary Manor flower border with the dovecote in the background  Lytes Cary Manor staff/volunteers It looks like a dovecote but it's actually a water tower * The cutting garden at Lytes Cary Manor in Somerset in full bloom.
Meadow pipit The Meadow pipit is the most common bird found in the uplands during the summer months.
Access near B&Q Neath to Neath Canal towpath and Aberdulais Canal Basin
Look out for Red Devon cattle grazing part of the site * Let off steam in the natural play area * Track down many rare species, including whitebeam trees * Discover Stokeleigh Camp Iron Age hill fort
Volunteer repairing a drystone wall on the estate at Lyme Park, Cheshire  NTPL/Arnhel de Serra
Shugborough Estate  Phil Evans Yew hedges line the pathway up to the grand entrance of the hall * Corner view of the Doric Temple in the garden at Shugborough.
Plants The shallow soil depth and lack of nutrients on Dunstable and Whipsnade Downs make ideal conditions for a wide range of rare and exciting plants only found in these habitats.
There are two pond barrows, circular flat areas surrounded by raised banks.
Mobility parking in main car park * Mobility toilet at visitor building, exit of service courtyard and near garden * Partly accessible, loose gravel paths, some cobbles
Departs from Broad Quay in the city centre, alight at Clifton Village
High fells like Cat Bells * The River Derwent which runs through ancient Atlantic oak woods * Castlerigg Stone Circle and Castle Crag Hill Fort * Iconic viewpoints such as Ashness Bridge, Surprise View and Honister Pass
Lavenham Guildhall, Lavenham in Suffolk  Jane Gosling Lavenham Guildhall sits proudly at the heart of the village on the main square * Lavenham Guildhall of Corpus Christi timber framed building Admire the fine medieval architecture of the timber-framed guildhall * Basket of spun wool at the Guildhall of Corpus Christi in the Market Place at Lavenham, Suffolk Sample the traditional crafts that made Lavenham famous * Explore the wealth of history inside Lavenham Guildhall, Suffolk  Fisheye Images Enjoy spending time in the colourful courtyard garden * Scones in the tea-room, Lavenham Guildhall, Suffolk  Amy Mountney Enjoy cup of tea and a delicious homemade scone as part of your visit
Fell Foot Park at the south end of Windermere showing The National Trust boat hire business, tea shop and retail shop in beautifully restored boathouses built from local limestone Fell Foot Park is on the shore of Lake Windermere * Fell Foot Park on Lake Windermere showing a variety of boats moored in front of the restored boathouses with Gummers How summit in the background to the left.
At the gravel track, turn left and follow it round to the right past Warren Cottage, then round to the left and up to a road junction.
We particularly support Claydon House at Middle Claydon, near Buckingham and Ashridge Estate.
During bird nesting season, which is between April and July, paths must be stuck to when out on the estate to create as little disturbance as possible to the ground nesting birds.
Go through kissing gate into field opposite and bear right diagonally uphill to kissing gate.
Our Oak-lined Avenue is great for running races from tree to tree, while Green Close Field is the perfect spot for a kickabout.
So much food was produced on the estate that the Hall was self-sufficient in fruit, vegetables, and meat and dairy produce (direction 10).
Go through kissing gate into field opposite and bear right diagonally uphill to kissing gate.
Show/HideDevil's Grave This cave mouth drops into a maze of ancient tunnels at the heart of the legend.
Ancient yew Leigh Woods is by far the largest block of woodland in the Bristol area.
From Westleton/Dunwich road, turn right 1 mile before Dunwich village into Minsmere road, then 1 mile to Dunwich Heath
One more gate will take you into a meadow - walk up a short, sharp bank to the top of the field and the fence line.
Follow this up to Hodge Close until you reach the quarry By bus: Coniston Rambler (505) runs from Windermere, Ambleside and Hawkshead.
Dryads Saddle fungi growing on a tree at the edge of the historic parkland at Ashridge.
Continue along to trail marker 5 reaching Pascombe Hill, close to this marker are two pillow mounds.
Start off with Cat Bells for your route into the central fells leading to Maiden Moor, High Spy, Dale Head, Great Gable, the Scafell Massif and Glaramara.
Ancient yew Leigh Woods is by far the largest block of woodland in the Bristol area.
A Forestry Commission conifer plantation near the entrance to Gibside that will be felled this spring will be the location of Gibside's new all-weather car park  National Trust / Gibside Work begins in March when the Forestry Commission will fell a commercial conifer crop on the land where the new car park is to be located.
Fishing and boating available on Loweswater in the Buttermere Valley, Lake District.
Goram began digging the nearby Hazel Brook Gorge in Blaise Castle estate, but consumed too much beer and fell asleep.
One more gate will take you into a meadow - walk up a short, sharp bank to the top of the field and the fence line.
Stourhead is at the heart of a 1,072-hectare (2,650-acre) estate where chalk downs, ancient woods and farmland are managed for nature conservation.
Inside, you can follow the changing fortunes of Lavenham's cloth industry, local families, as well as its farming heritage and agricultural roots.
A woodland with an amazing and diverse history from medieval mythology to Iron Age dwellings, industry and differing management, Leigh Woods also offers wonderful views of the Avon gorge and Brunel's famous suspension bridge.
The landscape at Hafod y Llan
Wild mountain goats on Hafod y Llan farm, Snowdonia.
Take the path on the right, signposted 'Public footpath/Suffolk Coast Path'.
Visitor Centre is a short detour from Ridgeway footpath at Ivinghoe Beacon
Dogs welcome but need to be kept on leads or close control, especially when crossing fields with livestock.
Show/HideCoal waggonways George Bowes and his family created the fine buildings and landscape gardens at Gibside with a fortune amassed through coal mining.
Find out more * The Temple of Venus on the edge of Eleven Acrre Lake at Stowe  NTPL/Andrew Butler Western Garden
The parkland provides a habitat for rare invertebrates, wild flowers and contains many mature trees and also some splendid wrought-iron gates, made in 1719 by the Davies brothers.
Ponies grazing at Lanlay meadows  Will Lewis Ponies grazing at Lanlay meadows * Lanlay meadows looking down the river Ely  Will Lewis Lanlay meadows looking down the river Ely * The rhos pasture at lanlay meadows  J Daggett The rhos pasture at Lanlay meadows
The bunkhouse/basecamp buildings are also available for use by other National Trust places in the area including: Hughenden Manor, Waddesdon Manor and West Wycombe Park.
View of Old Harry Rocks near Studland showing erosion of the white chalk cliffs.
Cyclist enjoying a detour through a wild flower meadow at Dinefwr Park, Llandeilo  National Trust
Boat at anchor in High Wray Bay  National Trust/Linda Doran The Lakes Is this the ultimate outdoors destination?
Mobility parking in main car park, 100 yards from house with drop-off point.
Our Low Carbon Villages project took place in Coleshill, Oxfordshire and Cambo, on the Wallington Estate in Northumberland.
The Tennant Canal Aqueduct at Aberdulais Falls, Neath  David Hammond-Williams (National Trust) Walking Aberdulais is the starting point for the Craig Gwladys walk through centuries of industrial history.
We have 125 acres of attractive parkland, meadows, wetlands and waterways to explore by foot or by bike.
Head to the old Severn Mill.
This bus service continues to Ivinghoe Village.
Permissions were granted to fish on the estate's river and a golf course built on the parkland.
OS ref: SE018137  National Trust * Looking up towards Pule Hill on the Marsden Moor Estate, West Yorkshire  Simon Fraser Pule Hill
A Forestry Commission conifer plantation near the entrance to Gibside that will be felled this spring will be the location of Gibside's new all-weather car park  National Trust / Gibside Work begins in March when the Forestry Commission will fell a commercial conifer crop on the land where the new car park is to be located.
When you come up to the avenue of lime and horse chestnut trees near the gate by the Surrey Arms pub, turn left and walk along the avenue.
Separating the marshes from the shingle habitat is a tidal creek called Stony Ditch.
View looking beyond the canal, walled garden and summer house to Ickworth  National Trust Parkland
Coniston Water from path on Selside eastern side  National Trust/Linda Doran It truly is glorious scenery all year round * View of Tarn Hows near Coniston  National Trust Not hard to see why Tarn Hows is a great favourite with everyone * view of walkers on woodland path  National Trust/Linda Doran Walkers enjoying paths around Tarn Hows * Two kayaks on Coniston Water east side  National Trust/Linda Doran Make the most of Coniston Water * Mallard enjoying Yew Tree Tarn  National Trust/Linda Doran At Yew Tree Tarn this is the best seat in the house * view of Coniston Pier with dinghy and flags in summer  National Trust/Linda Doran The Pier is at the heart of Coniston Water's activities
Along with the beautiful gardens here at Hanbury Hall the Midlands is blessed with outdoor spaces of all shapes and sizes from formal pleasure gardens, to walled kitchen-gardens.
Image of recently excavated and restored old Wheathampstead Station Platform at Wheathampstead, where Bernard Shaw used to catch the train to London  Lizzie Dunford
There are Bronze Age burial mounds in the Ivinghoe and Pitstone hills.
Children playing in an adventure playground in the woods at Gibside  Noel Adamson
